LINK TO LEARNING PepsiCo PepsiCo is a global leader in the food and beverage industry. It has also been noted for its excellence in corporate governance. Take a look at the PepsiCo website (https://openstax.org/r/pepsico). Why do you think the company has won numerous awards and was featured in Fortune's annual Blue Ribbon Companies list for 2021? The Importance of Independence in Boards of Directors An independent board of directors is composed of individuals who have no material interest in the company other than their directorship. They maintain their independence by only accepting compensation from the company for their BOD services. They also have their own information sources, instead of relying on information provided by senior management of the company. It is considered a corporate governance best practice to have independent members serve on boards of directors for both publicly and privately held companies. In most cases, board members have no affiliation with activities or organizations that could result in conflicts of interest. An example of this might be a scenario in which a board is considering the formation of a partnership or alliance with an organization that is directly associated with one of its board members. In such an instance, a director might be excused from participating in that decision process, particularly if it is clear that it would lead to potential conflict. A board with a majority of independent directors can bring expertise and objectivity, which • helps assure ownership that the company is being run legally, ethically, and in the best interest of shareholders; • allows for both independence and objectivity regarding senior managerial representatives and limits situations in which a key decision maker might have a vested interest or an "ax to grind"; and • enables board members to advance discussions with no hidden agendas for self-advancement or other self-profiting motives. The Importance of Diversity in Boards of Directors As mentioned earlier, diversity can be an important quality for any board of directors. Increasingly over recent years, corporate management has begun to appreciate the value of diversity in boards of directors. This has resulted in a significant increase in the total number of women and people of color in boardrooms in the United States. However, many business observers believe that corporate governance practices have a long way to go in this respect. Increasing representation has now grown to become a high priority for most businesses and organizations around the world. Board members face many challenges in making decisions effectively and efficiently as possible. Because of such challenges, the potential objective of diversifying the boardroom competes with other worthy topics and objectives such as improving cybersecurity, advancing customer service, identifying and reducing risk, improving community relations, and positioning strategically within an industry. This has left corporate governance experts and researchers in a situation where they find themselves "playing catch-up" to adequately diversify. 2.3 • Role of the Board of Directors 49