5 Financial Statements Core 6 Measures of Financial Health Core 7 Time Value of Money I: Single Payment Value Core 8 Time Value of Money II: Equal Multiple Payments Core 9 Time Value of Money III: Unequal Multiple Payment Values Core 10 Bonds and Bond Valuation Core 11 Stocks and Stock Valuation Core 12 Historical Performance of US Markets Core 13 Statistical Analysis in Finance Extension 14 Regression Analysis in Finance Extension 15 How to Think about Investing Core 16 How Companies Think about Investing Core 17 How Firms Raise Capital Core 18 Financial Forecasting Core 19 The Importance of Trade Credit and Working Capital in Planning Extension 20 Risk Management and the Financial Manager Extension Table 1 Although chapters are written to be independent, they do generally build on the understanding in the previous core chapters. Please bear this in mind when considering alternate sequences. Key Features to Drive Understanding • Concepts in Practice presents examples of financial challenges, managerial decisions, and the range of accepted business practice in companies and industries. • Think It Through guides students through the process of applying the concepts in the chapter to analyzing and interpreting data. • Link to Learning introduces students to online resources (further reading, data sources, or videos) that are pertinent to students' exploration of the topic at hand. Organizational and Reinforcement Materials to Support Learning • Learning Outcomes. Every section begins with a set of clear and concise learning outcomes (LOs). These outcomes are designed to help the instructor decide what content to include or assign and to guide students on what they can expect to learn. • Why It Matters. Chapter opening examples include real-world topics from corporate finance, small business, and personal finance to explain the relevance and interest of the topic for students. • CFA® Institute. For certain chapters, a topical connection to the learning outcome statements (LOS) for the Level I Study Sessions (https://openstax.org/r/level1-study-session) of the CFA Institute's professional curriculum is indicated at the end of the chapter. • Summaries. Designed to support both students and instructors, chapter summaries distill the information in each section down to key, concise points. • Key Terms. Key terms are bold and are followed by an explanation in context. Definitions of key terms are also listed in a glossary that appears at the end of each module online and at the end of each chapter in print. • Assessments. A mix of multiple-choice questions, short-answer review questions, and quantitative problems is provided, depending on topic, providing opportunities for students to recall, discuss, and Preface 3