The Impact of Digitization Data digitization makes the storage and transmission of data easier and more cost effective. Some data starts out as digital data, such as that from a Microsoft Suite product. The Excel files and Word documents we create are ubiquitous and easily stored and transmitted. Cloud storage and video conferencing are now the norm. Emails and Zoom meetings are quick, easy, and inexpensive ways to share and store information. Businesses now create an e-trail, or virtual paper trail, to document, verify, and share processes. Because data is now much easier to access, firms bear the added responsibility of ensuring that it is stored and secured properly so that individuals cannot inappropriately alter or delete information. Data storage has changed significantly in the last decade as companies have moved the storage of digital data to the cloud. The advantages include only paying for the storage actually used, reduced energy consumption, access to specialized data protection services, and software and hardware maintenance. However, the risk of data hacks and the safety of data are key concerns in the storage of digitized information. Uses of Data Taken together and separately, the internally generated financial statements can provide managers with a wealth of information to enable superior decision-making. Harvard Business School identifies six ways managers can use financial statements.3 1. Measuring the impact of business decisions such as new software, marketing plan, or product line 2. Aiding in the development of budgets by creating a starting point for future expectations 3. Aiding in cost cutting or the reduction of duplicate activities 4. Providing data-supported strategic planning and visioning 5. Ensuring consistent data and content across departments 6. Motivating teams to set, meet, and exceed goals and objectives CONCEPTS IN PRACTICE How and Why Managers Use Financial Statements: The Case of Peloton Should you lease a new car or buy one? Do you opt for the more expensive high-tech production equipment or reduce your upfront investment and pay higher labor costs over time? Is it better to finance a new product by borrowing money or selling new shares of stock? Should you manufacture overseas where the production costs are lower or in your own country where political and transportation costs are lower? Once you make your choice, how do you know if you've made the right decision? Understanding and applying financial principles can help. For example, consider Peloton, the leader in social exercising with its bike, treadmill, and yoga platforms. In 2012, the principal founder, John Foley, was inspired to start the company because he lacked the time to attend bicycle exercise classes due to his demanding career and growing family. He enjoyed cycling classes, but they could be expensive and often did not fit into his schedule. He recognized that the most popular instructors had developed a bit of a cult following and that the music playlist was a critical component for many followers. His choice of the company name, Peloton, comes from the French word for a "pack of bike riders," familiar to anyone who has even loosely followed the annual Tour de France bike race. The company name evokes a measure of mystique and prestige. Peloton started small and underwent five funding rounds in seven years before the company went public with an initial public offering in September 2019. Foley and his friends had the idea that they were a "purposeful music company" and needed to touch on all aspects of the workout experience including the 3 Catherine Cote. "How and Why Managers Use Financial Statements." Business Insights. June 16, 2020. https://online.hbs.edu/ blog/post/how-managers-use-financial-statements 1.3 • Importance of Data and Technology 17