non-diversifiable risk risk that cannot be eliminated by simply holding a portfolio of securities; also known as systematic risk political risk the risk of local, state, or national governments "changing the rules" and disrupting firm cash flows primary market a term used in financial markets to identify the market for the purchase and sale of new securities secondary market a term used in financial markets to represent the purchase or sale of used securities that trade after the initial sale by the offering firm Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) a nonprofit corporation that provides brokerage customers up to $500,000 coverage for cash and securities held by the firm treasurer position responsible for monitoring cash flow at a firm and frequently is the contact person for bankers, underwriters, and other outside sources of financing Treasury bills (T-bills) short-term debt obligations of one year or less issued by the US government Treasury bonds long-term debt obligations issued by the US government characterized by having maturities of greater than 10 years and making periodic interest payments as well as principal payment at maturity Treasury notes long-term debt obligations issued by the US government characterized by having maturities of 2 to 10 years and making periodic interest payment as well as principal payment at maturity working capital management the development, oversight, and management of a firm's short-term assets and liabilities Multiple Choice 1. Which of the following was NOT identified by your authors as one of the three main areas of financial study? a. business finance b. capital budgeting c. investments d. financial markets and institutions 2. What is the process of determining which long-term or fixed assets to acquire in an effort to maximize shareholder value? a. Business finance b. Capital budgeting c. Investments d. Financial markets and institutions 3. In an organization with each of these financial positions, which title is most likely to be associated with a job description that is less of a "hands-on" manager and that engages more in visionary and strategic planning? a. comptroller (or controller) b. treasurer c. vice president of finance d. chief financial officer (CFO) 4. Which of the following statements is false? a. Financial planning is an important tool of for-profit organizations such as corporations and partnerships but is not important for not-for-profit enterprises such charitable organizations or governments. b. Good financial planning considers past, present, and pro forma income statements. c. Balance sheets are critical elements of the financial planning process and help demonstrate expected 1 • Multiple Choice 33