AA: In your bio, you mention liquidity management. Can you elaborate on this and why liquidity management is so important to a firm? Simmons: Just as effective forecasting can provide superior cash management, the same holds true for liquidity management. For example, if you are able to confidently predict levels and timing of cash, then based on that forecast, you can make effective short- and long-term borrowing decisions. A disciplined approach to projecting one's cash position means that instead of investing cash in the money market to maximize day-to-day liquidity, you can look into longer-term investments that can provide a significantly higher return. This is essential to the effective matching of cash inflows and outflows for the firm. AA: In summary, do you have any words of advice to students who might have an eye to entrepreneurial ventures? Simmons: "Cash is king," don't forget that. Understand how cash moves through a business. It is also very important to implement and retain a cash management discipline. Never put that off until later. Many times, start-ups will say, "Well, I have all this venture money, and we can start making things happen and worry about being good cash managers later." But what I've seen is that the longer companies wait, the harder it is to break bad habits. Making cash management a priority now will serve entrepreneurs in perfect stead as their business starts to gain traction. We closed this excellent interview with agreement that we were "kindred spirits" regarding the importance of cash flow analysis, including capital decisions such as those mentioned in this chapter. We confirmed with each other the core belief that "cash flow is the axis upon which the world of business spins." (source: Business Finance: A Clear View, 3rd edition, by Alan S. Adams. LAD Publishing, 2015.) LINK TO LEARNING Analyst Training Materials These materials, developed to help professionals prepare for an analyst certification exam, describe the sources of return from investing in a bond (https://openstax.org/r/return-investing-bond). 9.2 Unequal Payments Using a Financial Calculator or Microsoft Excel Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Calculate unequal payments using a financial calculator. • Calculate unequal payments using Microsoft Excel. Using a Financial Calculator A financial calculator provides utilities to simplify the analysis of uneven mixed cash streams (see Table 9.8). Earlier, we explored the future value of a seven-year mixed stream, with $2,000 being saved each year, plus an additional $10,000 in year 4 and an additional $3,000 in year 6. All cash flows and balances earn 7% per year compounded annually, and the payments are made at the start of each year. We proved that this result totals approximately $35,062.26. We begin by clearing all memory functions and then entering each cash flow as follows: 9.2 • Unequal Payments Using a Financial Calculator or Microsoft Excel 271