The P/E ratio is extremely useful to analysts in that it shows the expectations of the market. Essentially, the P/E ratio is representative of the price an investor must pay for every unit of current (or future) corporate earnings. Bottom-line earnings are a critical factor in valuing common stock. Investors will always want to know how profitable a company is now as well as how profitable it will be in the future. When a company's bottom line remains relatively flat over a period of time, leaving earnings per share (EPS) relatively unchanged, the P/E ratio can be interpreted as the payback period for the original amount paid for each share of common stock. For example, the common stock price of Cameo Corp. is currently at $24.00 a share, and its EPS for the year is $4.00. Cameo's P/E ratio is calculated as This ratio would typically be expressed in the form . Essentially, this means that investors are willing to pay up to six dollars for every one dollar of earnings. It can also be stated that Cameo stock is currently trading at a multiple of six. The P/E ratio is typically expressed in two primary ways. The first is as a metric listed by most finance websites and often carries the notation P/E (ttm). This refers to the Wall Street acronym for "trailing 12 months" and signals the company's operating performance over the past 12 months. Another form of the P/E ratio is known as the forward (or leading) P/E. This uses future earnings projections rather than actual trailing amounts. The leading P/E, sometimes called the estimated price to earnings, is useful for comparing current earnings to future earnings and helps provide a clearer picture of what earnings may look like, assuming there are no major changes in the company's operations or accounting treatments. Referring back to our calculation for Cameo Corp. above, because the current EPS was used in the calculation, this ratio would be classified as a trailing P/E ratio. If we had used an estimated or projected EPS as the denominator in the calculation, it would then be considered a leading P/E ratio. Analyzing a company's P/E ratio alone or within a vacuum will actually tell an analyst very little. It is only when a company's P/E is compared to historical P/E ratios or the P/E ratios of other companies in the same industry that it becomes a useful tool for analysis. One of the most important benefits of using comparative P/E ratios is that they can standardize stocks with different prices and various earnings levels. Generally speaking, it is very difficult to make any conclusions about a stand-alone stock value, such as whether a stock that has a ratio of is a good buy at its current price or if a stock with a P/E ratio of is too expensive, without performing any relevant comparisons or further analysis. Analysts have many different ways to interpret P/E ratio data. One of the most common interpretations is that firms with high P/E ratios should be growth companies. Also, a high P/E ratio could mean that a stock's price is high relative to earnings and possibly overvalued. This could signal a possible undesired downward adjustment in market price in the future. We can extrapolate from the argument above to put forward the idea that stocks with low P/E ratios should be stabler, more mature organizations. A low P/E might indicate that the current stock price is low relative to earnings and that there may be an opportunity to take advantage of upward price movements and potential investment gains through stock price appreciation. While this information is often very useful for evaluating stocks and making investment decisions, caution must always be used, as a current stock price may simply be out of line with the company's earning potential, which would mean that price adjustments are likely to occur in the short term. This is why experienced analysts and investors will use multiple evaluation techniques when conducting stock analysis and evaluation and not rely solely on insights provided by a single set of facts or one form of statistical measurement. 11.1 • Multiple Approaches to Stock Valuation 321