Figure 3.12 Growth of the US GDP6 Gross domestic product (GDP), the featured measure of US output, is the market value of the goods and services produced by labor and property located in the United States. Real gross domestic product is the inflation- adjusted value of the goods and services produced by labor and property located in the United States. For more information, see the NIPA Handbook: Concepts and Methods of the US National Income and Product Accounts and the US Bureau of Economic Analysis. LINK TO LEARNING US Bureau of Economic Analysis The US Bureau of Economic Analysis, an agency of the Department of Commerce, produces economic accounting statistics, including GDP. The agency's economists and statisticians also produce measures of state and local economies, foreign trade statistics, and industry data. To learn more about the US Bureau of Economic Analysis and how it measures economic activity, visit the BEA website (https://openstax.org/r/ bea-website). You can find data regarding the GDP and economic growth in your state, as well as international trade and industry statistics. 3.3 Business Cycles and Economic Activity Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Outline the stages of the business cycle. • Identify recessionary and expansionary periods. What Is the Business Cycle? Although the US economy has grown significantly over time, as seen in Figure 3.12, the growth has not occurred at a constant, consistent pace. At times, the economy has experienced faster-than-average growth, and occasionally the economy has experienced negative growth. The percentage change in real GDP for each quarter is shown in Figure 3.13. For any quarter in which real GDP is growing, the percentage change will be positive. When the growth rate of real GDP is negative, the economy 6 Data from US Bureau of Economic Analysis. "Gross Domestic Product (GDP)." FRED. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, accessed July 27, 2021. https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/GDP 82 3 • Economic Foundations: Money and Rates Access for free at openstax.org