term risk the risk of potentially earning lower returns on longer-term bond holdings compared to those potentially available when making several shorter-term investments over the same period of time US Treasury bills (T-bills) short-term US government debt obligations backed by the Treasury Department with a maturity of one year or less US Treasury note rate the interest rate that the US government pays to borrow money for different lengths of time; notes are issued in terms of two, three, five, seven, and 10 years yield curve a line that plots yields (interest rates) of bonds having equal credit quality but differing maturity dates; gives an idea of future interest rate changes and economic activity yield to maturity (YTM) the total return anticipated on a bond if the investment is held until maturity zero-coupon bonds bonds that are issued at a deep discount from face value and offer no interest or coupon payments CFA Institute This chapter supports some of the Learning Outcome Statements (LOS) in this CFA® Level I Study Session (https://openstax.org/r/study-session-14). Reference with permission of CFA Institute. Multiple Choice 1. When solving bond problems relating to a bond that pays interest on a quarterly basis, the ________ before being applied. a. quoted annual yield to maturity should be multiplied by 4 b. quoted number of years until maturity should be divided by 4 c. quoted annual coupon payments should be divided by 4 d. stated face value should be divided by 4 2. Which of the following is NOT an adjustment that must be made when interest is paid semiannually instead of annually? a. Dividing the annual coupon payment by 2 b. Dividing the annual interest rate by 2 c. Dividing the total number of years by 2 d. Dividing the annual yield to maturity by 2 3. Which of the following is NOT considered a factor that influences a bondholder's required rate of return? a. Financial risk b. Other investments by the bondholder c. Risk premium d. Business risk 4. How might an investment in a bond fund be affected by a decline in interest rates? a. The fund investment would not be affected. b. The fund investment would likely decrease in value. c. The fund investment would likely increase in value. d. Coupon payments from bonds in the fund would decline. 5. Interest rates and bond prices ________. a. are unrelated b. have an inverse relationship c. have a direct relationship d. are both economic factors set by central banks 10 • CFA Institute 315