It is important to note that investment-grade bonds are among the most popular due to the fact that many commercial banks, as well as several pension funds, are only allowed to trade bonds that are investment grade. Any bond that is below investment grade, or rated lower than BBB (S&P, Fitch) or Baa (Moody's), is referred to as a high-yield bond or a junk bond. Junk bonds have had mixed levels of success for companies wishing to issue them to raise capital. In the early 1990s, the market for junk bonds collapsed, due in part to a political movement involving influential people who had been dominating corporate debt markets. This movement, combined with illegal insider trading activities conducted by investments banks, ultimately resulted in the bankruptcy of former financial giant Drexel Burnham Lambert.6 S&P / Fitch Moody's Grade Meaning AAA Aaa Investment Risk almost zero AA Aa Investment Low risk A A Investment Risky if economy declines BBB Baa Investment Some risk; more if economy declines BB Ba Speculative Risky B B Speculative Risky; expected to get worse CCC Caa Speculative Probably bankruptcy CC Ca Speculative Probably bankruptcy C C Speculative In bankruptcy or default D Speculative In bankruptcy or default Table 10.11 Bond Ratings (sources: S&P Global Ratings; Moody's) The market for junk bonds enjoyed a brief resurgence in popularity when the economy improved later in the 1990s. However, in 2001, the junk bond market shrank once again, resulting in 11% of US junk bond issues defaulting. In general, it is important to understand that bond ratings are only judgments on corporations' future ability to repay debt obligation and their growth prospects. There is no fixed methodology or basis for calculating a bond rating. However, some financial analysts can get a strong indication of how a bond will be rated by examining certain financial ratios of the issuing firm, such as company debt ratio, earnings-to-interest ratio, and their return on assets. CONCEPTS IN PRACTICE The Collapse of Enron: Bond and Credit Ratings and How They Change The bond rating system is not infallible. A perfect example of this is when energy giant Enron failed in 2001. After the collapse, investors correctly pointed out that a mere two months before this occurred, the company's bonds were rated as investment grade and considered relatively safe, having little risk for investors. Background on Enron From its formation in 1985 through the late 1990s, Enron grew to become an energy mega-conglomerate, 6 Lawrence Delevingne. "The Drexel Collapse, 25 Years Later." CNBC. February 13, 2015. https://www.cnbc.com/2015/02/13/the- drexel-collpase-25-years-later.html 10.4 • Risks of Interest Rates and Default 303