represent superior investments and to have proactive management teams focused on creating long-term value of company stock. Thus, with investors increasingly using ESG scores to form their investment strategies, the consequences of a poor rating can have a negative impact on a firm's share price and result in substantial problems. In any case, it is important to note that ESG is only a starting point from which it is possible to gather indicators on a business and its direction. In the end, it does not present the entire story of a firm. Any investment decisions about the company in question should include a significant amount of additional data. 2.5 Interacting with Investors, Intermediaries, and Other Market Participants Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Define the investor relations function. • Discuss how the investor relations office interacts with investors, regulators, and other corporate stakeholders. • Describe the topics most often discussed during a quarterly conference call. • Explain how press release information impacts company stock prices. Investor Relations Within the general field of corporate public relations is a specific subdivision referred to as investor relations (IR). IR involves elements of communication, marketing, and finance and is designed to control the flow of information from the management of a public corporation to its investors and stakeholders. Because the investment community plays such a critical role in the overall growth and success of any corporation, it is imperative that firms maintain strong and open relationships with their shareholder or potential investor audience. IR was developed to take responsibility for achieving and maintaining these crucial relationships. Investor relations are quite different from typical public relations practices. A firm's IR group must work very closely with the accounting and legal departments, as well as with members of the senior management team, such as the CEO and CFO. As might be expected, IR has far more regulatory obligations than standard public relations functions, largely due to corporate reporting requirements enforced by the SEC and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). IR became significantly more important in 2002, when the United States Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), also known as the Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act. This legislation resulted in requirements that dramatically increased the extent of financial reporting for any publicly traded company. SOX was enacted in an attempt to prevent the occurrence of corporate financial scandals such as the one notoriously committed by the Enron Corporation that we discussed earlier. In summary, investor relations functions have responsibilities including, but not limited to, • coordinating live shareholder meetings and press conferences; • disseminating financial information to the investment community; • conducting briefings to the financial analyst community; • publishing the quarterly report and annual report; and • addressing any issues that arise as a result of financial disclosure. The best time to form an internal IR function or to engage an IR firm is when a company begins the process of becoming publicly traded through an initial public offering, or IPO. Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls As a result of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, all publicly traded companies are required to file certain 54 2 • Corporate Structure and Governance Access for free at openstax.org