Inflation means that the purchasing power of currency falls. Whenever there is inflation, a $100 bill will not purchase as much as it did before. LINK TO LEARNING CPI Inflation Calculator According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, $100 in January 1913 had the same purchasing power as $1,722.45 in January 2000 and $2,699.20 in January 2021. If you would like to compare the purchasing power of a dollar amount in two different time periods, you can use the CPI Inflation Calculator (https://openstax.org/r/cpi-inflation-calculator). You can enter a current dollar amount and calculate its value in an earlier period. Alternatively, you can calculate the current value of dollar amounts from years ago. How Is Inflation Measured Each month, the US Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) collects price data and publishes measures of inflation. The measure most commonly cited is the consumer price index (CPI). The CPI is based on the cost of buying a fixed basket of goods and services comprising items a typical urban family of four might purchase. The BLS divides these purchases into eight major categories: food and beverages, housing, apparel, transportation, medical care, recreation, education and communication, and other goods and services. Sometimes you will hear a core inflation index being quoted. This index is calculated by excluding volatile economic variables, such as energy and food prices, from the CPI measure. Energy and food prices can jump around from month to month because of weather or other short-lived events. A drought can cause food prices to spike; a temporary rise in gasoline prices can occur as a hurricane approaches the coastline. These types of shocks are transitory in nature and do not represent underlying economic conditions. While the CPI and the core inflation index are based on the prices that households pay, the producer price index (PPI) is based on prices that producers of goods and services pay for their supplies and raw materials. The PPI captures price changes that occur prior to the retail level. Because it indicates rising costs to producers, increases in the PPI can foreshadow increases in the CPI. Both the CPI and the PPI are calculated by the BLS. The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) also calculates a measure of inflation known as the GDP deflator. The calculation of the GDP, or gross domestic product, deflator follows a different approach than that used to calculate the CPI and the PPI. Instead of using a fixed basket of items and measuring the price change of that fixed basket, the GDP deflator includes all of the components of the gross domestic product. Prices are taken from a base year and used to calculate what the GDP would have been in a given year if prices were identical to those in the base year. LINK TO LEARNING The Billion Prices Project Although the concept of inflation as a rise in the general price level is simple, measuring and documenting this increase is complicated. The CPI is designed to measure the cost of a market basket of goods that a typical urban family purchases. But what the typical family purchases over time changes. As an item in the basket becomes more expensive, families tend to substitute and replace the item with similar goods. Also, the quality of goods changes over time. Think of how purchases in a typical household have changed over the last two decades. Today, few families purchase answering machines, CDs, DVDs, or alarm clocks; smartphones have replaced many such products. Smartphones are even used to make purchases for 3.2 • Macroeconomics 77