determine sources and uses of funds and required funding to meet department and firm objectives. The process should look to emulate successful processes and change or eliminate ineffective ones. Budgeting is a periodic renewal and reminder of the firm's goals. Financial forecasting often starts with the firm's budget and recommends changes based on differences between the budgeted financial statements and actual results. Forecasting adjusts management behavior in the immediate term and serves as a foundation for subsequent budgets. 1.3 Importance of Data and Technology Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the role of data in finance. • List and describe the various types of corporate data available. • Explain how the various types of corporate data can be accessed and analyzed. • Describe the impact of data digitization. • Explain how stakeholders use data when making decisions. Importance of Data Financial data is important for internal and external analysis of business firms. More accurate and timely data leads to better business and financial decision-making. Financial budgeting and forecasting rely on the creation of several types of financial statements including income statements, the statements of cash flow, and balance sheets, as well as the notes and assumptions used to create the financial statements. Insiders such as executive and middle managers use financial data to evaluate and reevaluate decision-making. Having current and accurate data is key to making consistent value-adding decisions for a firm. Data helps inform managers about how and when to finance projects, which projects to undertake, and necessary changes to make regarding physical, financial, and human resource assets. "Gut feelings" and "seat-of-the-pants" decision-making tend to be inconsistent with value maximization. Outsiders also use publicly available data about firms to make purchasing, investment, credit, and regulatory decisions. Customers, investors, lenders, suppliers, and regulators must be able to access a firm's financial information. Investors need to determine how much they are willing to pay for a share of stock, banks need data to determine if a loan should be made, suppliers need financial information to determine if they should supply trade credit, and customers need to know that a firm has priced its products appropriately. Basic Data Types Financial statements provide some of the data needed for decision-making. Firms summarize data and develop at least three essential financial statements or reports. 1. The income statement summarizes the flow of revenues and expenses over a specified period. Income statements for publicly traded companies are available quarterly. 2. Statements of cash flow identify actual receipt and use of cash over a period. 3. Balance sheets show the existing assets, liabilities, and equity as of a particular date. These statements represent book values and reflect historical costs and accounting adjustments such as accumulated depreciation. Book values often differ significantly from market values. Market values look forward and reflect expectations, whereas book values represent what has occurred. In addition to the internal data summarized on financial statements, firms and outside stakeholders also seek external sources of information. External data gathering includes surveys of customers and suppliers, market research, new product development, statistical analysis, agreements with creditors, and discussions with government officials. Broader macroeconomic data is also valuable as it applies to expected market demand, unemployment, inflation, interest rates, and economic growth. 16 1 • Introduction to Finance Access for free at openstax.org