Figure 10.3 The Seesaw Effect of Bond Prices and Interest Rates A floating-rate note is a form of debt instrument that is similar to a standard fixed-rate bond but has a variable interest rate. Rates for floating-rate bonds are typically tied to a benchmark interest rate that exists in the economy. Common benchmark rates include the US Treasury note rate, the Federal Reserve funds rate (federal funds rate), the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), and the prime rate. So, investors who decide to purchase normal (fixed rate) bonds may not be thrilled to hear that the economy is signaling inflation and that interest rates are forecasted to rise. These bond investors are aware that when interest rates rise, their bond investments will lose value. This is not the case with floating- or variable-rate bonds. Bonds with very low coupon rates are referred to as deep discount bonds. Of course, the bond that has the greatest discount is the zero-coupon bond, with a coupon rate of zero. The smaller the coupon rate, the greater the change in price when interest rates move. LINK TO LEARNING Relationship between Bond Prices and Interest Rates Review this video (https://openstax.org/r/relationship-bond-prices) explaining the relationship between bond prices and interest rates within financial and capital markets. 10.2 Bond Valuation Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Determine the value (price) of a bond. • Understand the characteristics of and differences between discount and premium bonds. • Draw a timeline indicating bond cash flows. • Differentiate between fixed-rate and variable-rate bonds. • Determine bond yields. Pricing a Bond in Steps Why do we want to learn how to price a bond? The answer goes to the heart of finance: the valuation of assets. We need to ascertain what a given bond is worth to a willing buyer and a willing seller. What is its value to these interested parties? Remember that a bond is a financial asset that a company sells to raise money from willing investors. Whether you are the company selling the bond or the investor buying the bond, you want to make sure that you are selling or buying at the best available price. Let's begin our pricing examples with the 3M Company corporate bond listed in Table 10.1 above. The table 288 10 • Bonds and Bond Valuation Access for free at openstax.org