However, financial forecasting must incorporate macroeconomic assumptions and expectations into individual firm and industry forecasts. Economic Foundations expands on our discussion of micro- and macroeconomics. Importance of Macroeconomic Variables in Financial Markets To make financial forecasts, managers need good information to understand the relationship among several economic variables. Working from small to large, sales forecasts estimate the likely price and quantity of goods sold. In doing so, the forecaster will consider local, regional, state, national, and international economic conditions. Inflation is an important macroeconomic variable that influences prices. Every quarter, financial information hubs, such as the Wall Street Journal (WSJ), and government agencies and regulatory bodies, such as the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve, release estimates about expected and current inflation. This information informs policy makers how to adjust the money supply to meet target objectives. Financial forecasters pay close attention to current and expected interest rates, as they have a fundamental impact on the cost of raising money and determining the required rate of return for investment. The unemployment rate helps inform financial forecasters about the expected cost of labor and the ability of employers to hire people if a firm plans to increase the production of goods or services. The stock market is a forward-looking macroeconomic variable and measures investor expectations about future cash flows and economic growth. Political economic variables such as changes in regulation or tax policy can also affect forecasting models. LINK TO LEARNING Politics and Stock Markets Politics and stock market returns make for heated conversations. Who can run the country's economic system better, Republicans or Democrats? Presidents often take the credit or blame for overall economic performance even though their actual influence is less than you might think. See this fun comparison chart (https://openstax.org/r/macrotrends-net) of political economic performance that measures stock market returns by each administration going back to President Warren Harding in 1920. Who had the highest overall increase in the market? What president in the 21st century oversaw an overall decline in the market? Just to get things going, who had better overall market returns after four years in office, Donald Trump or Barack Obama? Each of the variables we have identified-inflation, interest rates, unemployment, economic growth, the stock market, and government fiscal policy-are macroeconomic factors. They are beyond the scope and influence of individual firms, but combined, they play a critical role in establishing the market in which firms compete. A better understanding of the interaction of these macro variables with each other and with individual micro or firm-specific variables can only strengthen financial forecasting and management decision-making. CONCEPTS IN PRACTICE Here, There, and Everywhere: Where Did Your iPhone Come From? How do international macroeconomic factors affect investment decisions for businesses and individuals? Foreign investment adds risk and potential return to the decision-making process. Macroeconomic factors such as different inflation rates, unexpected changes in currency exchange rates, and mismatched economic growth all add to the uncertainty of making investments abroad. Just as important are government regulations limiting pollution, exploitation of precious minerals, labor laws, and tariffs. Toss in a pandemic, and a bottleneck or two, and suddenly international macroeconomic factors can affect almost every aspect of commerce and international trade. 24 1 • Introduction to Finance Access for free at openstax.org