For example, how far did your new iPhone travel before it got into your hands? Apple is an American company headquartered in Cupertino, California, and worth over $2 trillion.8 However, your phone may have visited as many as six continents before it reached you. Each location touched by the Apple corporate hand requires an understanding of the financial impact on the product cost and a comparison with alternative designs, resources, suppliers, manufacturers, and shippers. This is where finance can get really fun! (Sources: Magdalena Petrova. "We Traced What It Takes to Make an iPhone, from Its Initial Design to the Components and Raw Materials Needed to Make It a Reality." CNBC. December 14, 2018. https://www.cnbc.com/2018/12/13/inside-apple-iphone-where-parts-and-materials-come-from.html; Natasha Lomas. "Apple's Increasingly Tricky International Trade-offs." TechCrunch. January 6, 2019. https://techcrunch.com/2019/01/06/apples-increasingly-tricky-international-trade-offs/; Kif Leswing. "Here's Why Apple Is So Vulnerable to a Trade War with China." CNBC. May 13, 2019. https://www.cnbc.com/2019/05/13/why-is-apple-so-vulnerable-to-a-trade-war-with-china.html) Relationship between Microeconomics and Macroeconomics In the parable, a group of blind people happen upon an elephant for the first time, and they each touch one part-but one part only-of the elephant. Subsequently, when they each describe what they have discovered, the descriptions are vastly different. The group's members become upset, accusing one another of inaccurate descriptions or worse. The parable demonstrates how individuals can make absolute truths from their own limited and subjective information. Financial decision makers run a similar risk, if they choose to recognize only their own findings and ignore other microeconomic or macroeconomic information and the interaction of these factors. A common view to understanding economics states that macroeconomics is a top-down approach and microeconomics is a bottom-up approach. Financial decision makers need to see both the forest and the individual trees to chart a course and move toward a strategic objective. They need both the macro data, so important for strategic thinking, and the micro data, required for tactical movement. For example, the national rate of unemployment may not have been much help when Bacon Signs was searching for skilled laborers who could form neon signs. However, the unemployment rate helped inform the company about the probability of demand for new businesses and the signs they would need. 1.7 Financial Instruments Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Differentiate between money and capital markets. • List money market instruments. • List capital market instruments. Money Markets and Instruments The money market is the market for short-term, low-risk, highly liquid securities. "Short-term" refers to money market securities having maturities of less than one year-sometimes as short as overnight. "Low risk" specifically means that the probability of default by the issuer in very unlikely. Defaulting on money market instruments is not unheard of, but it is very rare. "High liquidity" means that money market instruments can generally be sold in a secondary market very quickly and at or near their current market value. Finally, money market securities are homogeneous, meaning that within an issue of securities, a single 8 Sergei Klebnikov. "Apple Becomes First U.S. Company Worth More Than $2 Trillion." Forbes. August 19, 2020. https://www.forbes.com/sites/sergeiklebnikov/2020/08/19/apple-becomes-first-us-company-worth-more-than-2-trillion/ 1.7 • Financial Instruments 25