economics, depending on student preparation. It provides a solid grounding in the core concepts of financial theory so that business students interested in a major or minor in finance will also be prepared for more rigorous upper-level courses. Concepts are further reinforced through applicable connections and practical calculation techniques for more detailed and realistic company scenarios from various industries. Pedagogical Foundation Principles of Finance emphasizes financial concepts relevant to people working in a variety of business functions. To illuminate the meaningful applications and implications of financial ideas, the book incorporates a unique use-case approach, providing connections among topics, solutions, and real-world problems. This multifaceted framework drives the integration of concepts while maintaining a modular chapter structure. Theoretical and practical aspects are presented in a balanced manner, and select ethical considerations are introduced, particularly in the context of corporate governance. In order to create meaning for all students, Principles of Finance exposes them to a range of companies, industries, and scenarios reflecting different contexts. Examples of large companies such as Apple, Peloton, and American Airlines are balanced with small businesses-coffee shops, clothing stores, and salons-that may be more aligned with student experiences. The text includes authentic narratives from corporate finance, small business, and personal finance to drive relevance and interest of the discipline. Profiles and interviews include diverse figures in finance, such as Carlos Slim, Irina Simmons, Janet Yellen, and Ben Bernanke. Problems and exercises have been carefully constructed to place students into a range of settings and contexts as they develop knowledge and put it into practice. Finally, to reflect very recent experiences, the authors have incorporated several discussions regarding the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on people and businesses. Throughout, there is an emphasis on data use in business decision-making, with integrative sections on the importance and analysis of financial, economic, and statistical data. Data types include FRED (https://openstax.org/r/fred-stlouisfed)® economic data, company financial statements, and stock prices. Practical techniques and calculation examples for data analysis with financial calculators (the Texas Instruments BA II Plus™ Professional model is used as the basis for example illustrations) and/or spreadsheets are included for relevant topics. For key chapters, downloadable Microsoft® Excel® data files are available for student reference. This technical feature provides students with access to the Excel data files used in the chapter examples for time value of money (Chapters 7, 8, 9) and statistics (Chapters 14, 15, 16) problems. The downloadable files for the chapters covering financial forecasting and trade credit (18 and 19) allow students to see how changing assumptions and variables impact financial decision-making. Chapters 13 and 14 (statistical and regression analysis, respectively) also include brief sections about the R software (https://openstax.org/r/r-software) package to promote further interest in trends in data science. Teaching Plan Options Principles of Finance includes chapters on basic, applied, and integrative finance topics as well as key concepts from prerequisite financial accounting, quantitative methods (statistics), and economics courses. The chapters on prerequisite topics highlight examples relevant to finance students. For instructors with a limited one- semester schedule or whose students have solid knowledge of prerequisite disciplines, we recommend focusing on the "core" chapters, as indicated in the following table of contents: 1 Introduction to Finance Core 2 Corporate Structure and Governance Core 3 Economic Foundations: Money and Rates Extension 4 Accrual Accounting Process Extension Table 1 2 Preface Access for free at openstax.org