Alternative Multipliers There are two main types of valuation metrics multiples used to value common stock. These are equity multiples and enterprise value (EV) multiples. Additionally, there are two primary methods by which to perform analysis using these multiples. These methods are comparable company analysis (comps) and precedent transaction analysis (precedents). Experienced financial analysts advocate the use of multiples in valuation analysis for a number of reasons, the most important being that they help generate realistic and sound judgments of enterprise values (total company values), they are relatively easy to use and interpret, and they can provide helpful information on a company's overall financial condition when used appropriately. However, it should be noted that simplicity may have some important disadvantages. When such complex information is reduced to a single equation or final value, it can easily be misunderstood, and the influence of important factors may be masked or lost in the evaluation process. What's more, the calculation of multiples represents a snapshot in time for a firm and cannot easily show how a company grows or progresses. Thus, these calculations are only applicable to short-term analysis, not to long-term scenarios. Equity Multiples Equity multiples are especially useful for investment decisions when an investor aspires to minority positions in companies. Below are some common equity multiples used in valuation analyses. The price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio, which we discussed earlier, is probably the most common equity multiple used in stock valuation because it is relatively simple to calculate and all necessary data are easily accessible by analysts and investors. The market-to-book (M/B), or price-to-book (P/B), ratio is also useful if assets primarily drive a company's earnings. Again, it is computed as the proportion of share price to book value per share. Dividend yield is another form of equity multiple and is primarily used when conducting comparisons between cash returns and investment types. Dividend yield is computed as the proportion of dividend per share to share price. The price-to-sales (P/S) ratio is an additional metric used for firms that are experiencing financial losses. The P/S ratio is often used for quick estimates and is computed as the proportion of share price to sales (or revenue) per share. Another useful metric is the price-to-cash-flow (P/CF) ratio. The P/CF ratio is used to compare a company's market value to its operating cash flow (or the company's stock price per share to its operating cash flow per share). This measurement is suitable only in certain cases, such as when a company has substantial noncash expenses (e.g., depreciation or amortization). In some situations, companies may have positive cash flows but still show a bottom-line loss due to large noncash expenses. The P/CF ratio is helpful for arriving at a less distorted view of such a company's value. While these various metrics are important, a financial analyst must always consider that companies often operate under their own unique sets of circumstances that ultimately will influence many of these equity multiples. Enterprise Value (EV) Multiples The following are some common EV multiples used in valuation analyses: Gordon growth model is as follows 11.1 • Multiple Approaches to Stock Valuation 323