CONCEPTS IN PRACTICE The Great Recession The Great Recession of 2007-2009 exposed many of the weaknesses of our financial system. The ease with which banks could lower credit standards to allow ill-prepared consumers to purchase real estate and the resulting speed with which the world economy plunged into recession is astounding. Regulation to address the economic crisis was also swift. Fortunately, Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve at the time, had throughout his career conducted extensive research into the causes of and potential resolution of the Great Depression of the 1930s.2 He was uniquely qualified to lead the economic response to the crisis. Some resulting laws moved to address the immediate needs and others to correct the underlying causes of the recession. One immediate fix was the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). TARP authorized the Treasury to buy illiquid assets in order to save the financial institutions so important to lubricating our economy. Politically this was a tough decision, as it appeared that the government bailed out greedy bankers. In the end, however, the program was justified because the economy immediately began a slow but steady recovery, most financial institutions did not fail, and the Treasury recouped all of its investment used in the bailout. However, individual homeowners suffered greatly. The Dodd-Frank Act of 2008 attempted to address many of the underlying causes of the Great Recession by reorganizing and toughening the regulatory framework, including tighter oversight of critically important financial institutions. Dodd-Frank also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to protect consumers from harm caused by unscrupulous banking activities. Today, the hope is that financial institutions will be stopped short of the gross negligence evident prior to 2007 and consumers won't be left out in the cold due to actions beyond their control. Sources: History Channel. "Here's What Caused the Great Recession." YouTube. May 15, 2018. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yM0uonkloXY. Accessed April 18, 2021; Randall D. Guynn, Davis Polk, and Wardwell LLP, "The Financial Panic of 2008 and Financial Regulatory Reform." Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance. November 20, 2010. https://corpgov.law.harvard.edu/2010/11/20/the- financial-panic-of-2008-and-financial-regulatory-reform/. Accessed April 18, 2021; Sean Ross. "What Major Laws Were Created for the Financial Sector Following the 2008 Crisis?" Investopedia. Updated March 31, 2020. https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/063015/what-are-major-laws-acts-regulating-financial- institutions-were-created-response-2008-financial.asp. Accessed April 18, 2021. Why We Study Finance Finance is the lubricant that keeps our economy running smoothly. Issuing a mortgage can be profitable for a bank, but it also allows people to live in their own homes and to pay for them over time. Do MasterCard, Venmo, and PayPal make money when you use their product? Sure, but think how much more convenient and safer it is to carry a card or use an app instead of cash. In addition, these services allow you to easily track where and how you spend your money. A well-regulated and independent financial system is important to capital-based economies. Our smoothly functioning financial system has removed us from the days of strictly bartering to our system today, where transactions are as simple as a tap on your mobile phone. There are any number of professional and personal reasons to study finance. A search of the internet provides a long list of finance-related professions. Interviews with senior managers reveal that an understanding of financial tools and concepts is an important consideration in hiring new employees. Financial skills are among 2 Brookings Institution. "Ben S. Bernanke." Brookings Institute. https://www.brookings.edu/experts/ben-s-bernanke/; Ben S. Bernanke. "On Milton Friedman's 90th Birthday." The Federal Reserve Board. November 8, 2002. https://www.federalreserve.gov/ boarddocs/speeches/2002/20021108/ 1.1 • What Is Finance? 11