The most productive investor and shareholder meetings begin with a strong, understandable corporate introduction and continue by delivering an engaging story that demonstrates the company's successes, a track record of growth, and the high probability of favorable future prospects. Additionally, it is important for a company's senior management to end any meeting with feedback from the investor audience and set timelines for follow-up. There will always be times when something unexpected may happen and the addition of information or impromptu changes to scheduled agendas may occur. It is at times like these when understanding the body language and facial expressions of an audience can be critical in producing a favorable outcome of the meeting. It is unlikely that the decision to invest or to remain an investor will be made based on a single corporate event, but impressions, good or bad, will certainly factor into such decisions over a period of time. Thus, it is important for IR officers to understand the importance of follow-up communication with their audience. Purposes of Corporate Press Releases Press releases have always been a vital tool in the communications toolkit of an IR professional. Various social media channels are also becoming increasingly popular for delivering company information and news. However, the press release remains a standard medium for most companies to communicate corporate news, results, and ideas. Press releases can be written with various intentions. Whether to release financial information, unveil new products or services, announce changes in management, or a host of other reasons, all communications have a different objective. Not all press releases are created equally, and they have varying degrees of effectiveness. Any press release should contain information in easy-to-understand language that is free of corporate jargon and as concise as possible. Press releases may be viewed by multiple audiences, such as customers, stakeholders, investors, potential investors, and the general public, which is vital to consider when drafting a press release. According to PR Newswire statistics, press releases that contain multimedia content have been known to substantially increase press release views.5 Using infographics and charts where possible and relaying the key messages in short, easy-to-digest points make a press release easier for the reader to take in. Quotes from senior management can provide valuable insight, but they should not provide any new information; they should simply extend or expand on a subject already mentioned and further back up a claim. LINK TO LEARNING Press Releases Approved by PR Newswire Take a look at this press release on mobile drive-in movies during the COVID-19 pandemic (https://openstax.org/r/mobile-drive-in-movies). How would you judge this press release? Is it effective? Why or why not? 2.6 Companies in Domestic and Global Markets Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain why corporations expand beyond domestic borders. • Determine how different strategic decisions may influence corporate performance. 5 "Multimedia Content Distribution." PR Newswire. Cision, accessed August 27, 2021. https://www.prnewswire.com/products/ multimedia-distribution-options.html 56 2 • Corporate Structure and Governance Access for free at openstax.org