spending) are included in this year's GDP calculation through the investment component. The investment spending category is roughly 15% to 18% of the US GDP. Government spending includes spending by federal, state, and local governments. Federal spending would include purchases of items such as a new military fighter jet and services such as the work of economists at the BLS. State governments purchase products such as concrete for a new highway and services such as the work of state troopers. Local governments purchase a variety of goods and services, such as books for the city library, playground equipment for the community park, and the services of public school teachers. In the United States, government spending accounts for nearly 20% of the GDP. Some items that are produced in the United States are sold to individuals, businesses, or government entities outside of the United States. For example, a bottle of Tabasco sauce produced in Louisiana may be sold to a restaurant in Vietnam, or tires produced in Ohio may be sold to an auto producer in Mexico. Because these items represent production in the United States, these exports should be included in the US GDP. Conversely, some of the items that US consumers, businesses, and government entities purchase are not produced in the United States. A family may purchase maple syrup from Canada or a Samsung television that was produced in South Korea. A business may purchase a Toyota vehicle that was produced in Japan. These items are imported from other countries and represent production in the country of origin rather than the United States. Because we already counted these items when adding consumption, investment, and government spending, we must subtract the value of imports in our GDP calculation. Net exports equals exports from the United States minus imports from other countries. Including net exports in the GDP calculation adjusts for this international trade. Historical Trends in GDP US GDP over the past 70 years is represented by the blue line in Figure 3.12. At the turn of the millennium, the yearly GDP of the United States was approximately $10 trillion. By 2020, the GDP exceeded $21 trillion, indicating that the US economy had more than doubled in size in the first 20 years of the 21st century.5 Because GDP is the market value of all goods and services produced, it can increase either because more goods and services are being produced or because the market value of these goods and services is rising. If 100 cars were produced and sold for $30,000 each, that would contribute $3,000,000 to the GDP. If, instead, the cars were sold for $33,000 each, the same 100-car production would contribute $3,300,000 to the GDP. The $300,000 increase in GDP would be due simply to higher prices, or inflation. Multiplying the current price of goods by the number of goods produced results in what is known as nominal GDP. In order to determine what the actual increase in production is, nominal GDP must be adjusted for inflation. This adjustment results in a calculation known as real GDP. To calculate real GDP, the amounts of goods and services produced are multiplied by the price levels in a base year. Thus, real GDP will rise only if more goods and services are being produced. The red line in Figure 3.12 represents the real GDP. Although its growth has not been as large as that of nominal GDP, real GDP has also grown significantly over the past 70 years. 5 "GDP (Current US$): United States." The World Bank. 2020. https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NY.GDP.MKTP.CD?locations=US 3.2 • Macroeconomics 81