is impacted by macroeconomic and microeconomic conditions and the risks that these conditions place on the company. In this chapter, we explore some of the economic concepts that managers should use as part of their strategic plan. 3.1 Microeconomics Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify equilibrium price and quantity. • Discuss how changes in demand will impact equilibrium price and quantity. • Discuss how changes in supply will impact equilibrium price and quantity. Demand Microeconomics focuses on the decisions and actions of individual agents, such as businesses or customers, within the economy. The interactions of the decisions that businesses and customers make will determine the price and quantity of a good or service that is sold in the marketplace. Financial managers need a strong foundation in microeconomics. This foundation helps them understand the market for the company's products and services, including pricing considerations. Microeconomics also helps managers understand the availability and prices of resources that are necessary for the company to create its products and services. A successful business cannot just create and manufacture a product or provide a service; it must produce a product or service that customers will purchase. Demand refers to the quantity of a good or service that consumers are willing and able to purchase at various prices during a given time period, ceteris paribus (a Latin phrase meaning "all other things being equal"). Let's consider what the demand for pizza might look like. Suppose that at a price of $30 per pizza, no one will purchase a pizza, but if the price of a pizza is $25, 10 people might buy a pizza. If the price falls even lower, more pizzas will be purchased, as shown in Table 3.1. Price ($) Quantity 30 0 25 10 20 20 15 30 10 40 5 50 Table 3.1 Demand Schedule for Pizza The information in Table 3.1 can be viewed in the form of a graph, as in Figure 3.2. Economists refer to the line in Figure 3.2 as a demand curve. When plotting a demand curve, price is placed on the vertical axis, and quantity is placed on the horizontal axis. Because more pizzas are bought at lower prices than at higher prices, this demand curve is downward sloping. This inverse relationship is referred to as the law of demand. 68 3 • Economic Foundations: Money and Rates Access for free at openstax.org