Figure 3.11 Historical Trends in the Unemployment Rate by Year, 1950-20213 The unemployment rate represents the number of unemployed as a percentage of the labor force. Labor force data are restricted to people 16 years of age and older who currently reside in one of the 50 US states or the District of Columbia, who do not reside in institutions (e.g., penal or mental facilities, homes for the aged), and who are not on active duty in the US Armed Forces. LINK TO LEARNING Unemployment around the World The World Bank publishes unemployment figures for countries around the world. In 2020, the World Bank figures showed that Cambodia had the lowest unemployment rate at 0.3% and that South Africa has the highest unemployment rate at 28.7%. To compare the rates in various countries, visit the unemployment statistics section (https://openstax.org/r/data-world-bank) of the World Bank website. Gross Domestic Product Gross domestic product (GDP) is a measure of the size of an economy. A country's GDP is the dollar value of all of the final goods and service produced within that country during a year. GDP measures the value of all of the automobiles produced, apples grown, heart surgeries performed, students educated, and all other new goods and services produced in a current year. How Is GDP Measured? GDP can be measured by adding up all of the items that are purchased in the economy. Purchases are divided into four broad expenditure categories: consumption spending, investment, government spending, and net exports. Consumption spending measures the items that households purchase, such as movie theater tickets, cups of coffee, and clothing. Consumption expenditure accounts for about two-thirds of the US GDP.4 Investment spending refers primarily to purchases by businesses. It is important to note that in this context, the term investment does not refer to purchasing stocks and bonds or trading financial securities. Instead, the term refers to purchasing new capital goods, such as buildings, machinery, and equipment, that will be used to produce other goods. Residential housing is also included in the investment-spending category, as are inventories. Products that producers make but do not sell this year (and so are not included in consumption 3 Data from US Bureau of Labor Statistics. "Unemployment Rate (UNRATE)." FRED. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, accessed July 6, 2021. https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/UNRATE 4 US Bureau of Economic Analysis. "GDP and the Economy: Advance Estimates for the First Quarter of 2020." Survey of Current Business 100, no. 5 (May 2020): 1-11. https://apps.bea.gov/scb/2020/05-may/0520-gdp-economy.htm 80 3 • Economic Foundations: Money and Rates Access for free at openstax.org