bike; video, audio, and music content; clothing design; competition among the riders; data gathering; and instructors for livestream and on-demand classes. They were selling an experience, not a bicycle. The equipment is expensive-a Peloton bike typically costs over $2,000. Peloton equips its studios with state-of- the-art camera and music systems and pays its instructors top dollar. Along the way, the founders made several critical financial decisions. They kept control of the firm by using private funding at the start. How can we tell if Peloton has managed its resources well? The company started with $400,000 of funding to develop a prototype in 2012. By 2018, firm value increased to $4 billion with yet another round of private investor funding. As of April 2021, Peloton is a publicly traded company with a stock value of $34 billion. The executives are sacrificing profits in the short term to generate growth and long-term profitability. The firm uses its financial statements to identify sources and uses of funds, to test the effectiveness of advertising, and to forecast future profitability. Analysts like the firm, the stock price is up, and by many financial measures, Peloton has been a great success. Time will tell if the decisions made over the last several years will lead to long-term profitability or if the company has overinvested in marketing only to miss current and long-term profits. (Sources: Viktor. "The Peloton Business Model-How Does Peloton Work & Make Money?" Productmint. Updated May 9, 2021. https://productmint.com/the-peloton-business-model-how-does-peloton-make- money/. Accessed May 18, 2021; John Ballard. "If You Invested $5,000 in Peloton's IPO, This Is How Much Money You'd Have Now." The Motley Fool. June 6, 2020. https://www.fool.com/investing/2020/06/06/if-you- invested-5000-in-pelotons-ipo-this-is-how-m.aspx. Accessed May 18, 2021; Erin Griffith. "Peloton's New Infusion Made It a $4 Billion Company in Six Years." New York Times. August 3, 2018. https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/03/technology/pelotons-new-infusion-made-it-a-4-billion-company- in-6-years.html) 1.4 Careers in Finance Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe current job opportunities in finance. • Describe the financial analyst role. • Describe the business analyst role. Job Opportunities in Finance: Market Trends There are many career opportunities in the field of finance. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) finds that as of May 2020, the median income for finance-related positions was $72,250 versus the overall median income of only $41,950. Further, the BLS predicts that close to an additional 500,000 new finance- and accounting-related jobs will be created by 2029.4 These new employment opportunities are in addition to the many openings that will become available as baby boomers continue to retire and leave the workforce. Several of the BLS-listed finance careers do not even have finance or associated wording in the career titles. The BLS identifies finance skills as necessary for careers such as management analysts and market research analysts and work in logistics. Of course, many careers traditionally encourage the study of finance. These include job titles and descriptions such as these: • Financial manager: Oversees aspects of and produces reports about an organization's financial needs, uses, and related activities • Investment relations associate: Prepares and presents company financial data to investors and other company stakeholders 4 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook. https://www.bls.gov/ooh/business-and-financial/home.htm 18 1 • Introduction to Finance Access for free at openstax.org