Figure 3.9 Graph Showing Increase in Sweatshirt Supply A change in any of the factors that are assumed to be held constant under the ceteris paribus assumption could have caused the demand curve to shift to the right. Perhaps a rise in consumers' incomes led them to purchase more clothing, including sweatshirts. Or an unseasonably cool fall could result in more people purchasing sweatshirts. If a popular TV personality indicates that their favorite weekend wardrobe consists of jeans and a sweatshirt and the tabloids run pictures of the celebrity wearing sweatshirts, the tastes and preferences of consumers may change. Another possibility is that the price of sweaters may have risen, causing people to substitute sweatshirts for sweaters. 3.2 Macroeconomics Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Define inflation and describe historical trends in inflation. • Define unemployment and describe how unemployment is measured. • Define gross domestic product and describe historical trends in gross domestic product. Inflation Macroeconomics looks at the economy as a whole. It focuses on broad issues such as inflation, unemployment, and growth of production. When the managers of an automotive company look at the market for steel and how the price of steel impacts the company's production costs, they are looking at a microeconomic issue. Rather than being concerned about individual markets or products, macroeconomics is the branch of economic theory that considers the overall environment in which businesses operate. Perhaps you have heard your parents talk about how much they paid for their first automobile. Or maybe you have heard your grandparents reminisce about spending a quarter to purchase a Coke. These conversations often turn to a discussion of how a dollar just doesn't go as far as it used to. The reason for this is inflation, or a general increase in price levels. It is not that just the price of an automobile has increased or that the price of a Coke has increased. Over time, the prices of many other things, from the salt on your table to college tuition, have increased. Also, you were paid a higher hourly wage at your first job than your parents and grandparents were paid; the price of labor has risen. When economists talk about inflation, they are discussing this phenomenon of the price of many things rising. Instead of tracking the price of one particular item, they consider the price of purchasing a basket of goods. 76 3 • Economic Foundations: Money and Rates Access for free at openstax.org