EV multiples take an increasingly important role when value decisions surround recent mergers and acquisitions. Enterprise value (EV) is a measurement of the total value of a company. Companies often believe that EV offers a more accurate representation of a firm's total value than a basic market capitalization method. Generally, EV is perceived to offer an aggregate value of the firm as an enterprise, which is a more comprehensive measurement (see Figure 11.2). Figure 11.2 Enterprise Value: The Complete Picture Following are two of the most common enterprise values metrics used in valuing companies and their common stock: EV/Revenue (EV/R). Also called EV/Sales, EV/R is a valuation metric used to understand a company's total valuation compared to its annual sales levels. EV/R can help provide an analyst with an idea of exactly how much investors pay for every dollar of a company's sales revenue. EV/R is considered a relatively crude metric but can be useful when analyzing companies that have different methods of revenue recognition. P/E ratios, for example, can be significantly affected by changes in the accounting policies of companies being evaluated. This is another reason why multiple metrics should be used in valuations. Additionally, EV/R is a useful measure for companies that are consuming cash or experiencing financial losses. Such companies may be start-ups or emerging technology firms that have not fully matured and are still in a growth stage of development. EV/EBIT. A firm's earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) is an indicator of its profitability before the effects of interest or taxes. EBIT is also referred to as operating earnings, operating profit, and profit before interest and tax. • EV/EBITDA. EV/EBITDA is a ratio that compares a company's enterprise value (EV) to its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). EBITDA is often used by analysts as a substitute for cash flow and can be applied to capital analysis using tools such as net present value and internal rate of return. It is relatively easy to calculate, as all information required to compete the calculation is 324 11 • Stocks and Stock Valuation Access for free at openstax.org