Term Structure of Interest Rates The expected yields of various bonds across different maturity periods are referred to as the term structure of interest rates. This is because they represent interest rates for different periods of time, maturities, or terms. When interest rate yields are plotted against their respective maturity periods and these plotted points are connected, the resulting line is called a yield curve. Essentially, the yield curve is a result of this plotting process and becomes a graphical representation of the term structure of interest rates. A yield curve will always be constructed by showing the value of yields (rates) on the y-axis and maturities or time periods on the x-axis (see Figure 10.5). To create a useful graph of the yield curve, interest rate yields should be computed for all government bonds at all remaining times to maturity. For example, the yields on all government bonds with a single year remaining until maturity should be calculated. This value is then plotted on the y-axis against the one-year term on the x-axis. Similarly, yields on government bonds with two years remaining until maturity are calculated and plotted on the y-axis against two years on the x-axis, and so on, until a point of critical mass of information is reached and the resulting graph displays useful information. The yield curve for government bonds is also known as the risk-free yield curve because these securities are thought of as safe investments that are not expected to fail or default and will in all likelihood repay or otherwise meet all financial obligations made through the bond issuance. Figure 10.5 A Normal Yield Curve: Long-Term Rates Are Higher Than Short-Term Rates A normal yield curve slopes upward, with yield increasing as the term increases. This is because yields on fixed-income investments such as bonds will rise as maturity periods increase and produce greater levels of risk. Corporate issuers of bonds will usually offer bond issues at higher yields that the government, which is understandable because they are potentially riskier for investors. Government securities are guaranteed by governments and have little to no chance of default or nonpayment. This is not the case for corporate bonds, where there is always a chance of default, though the likelihood of this occurring will vary by individual company or issuer as well as by bond type and term. We will discuss bond default and default risk next. LINK TO LEARNING The Yield Curve Review this video (https://openstax.org/r/introduction-to-the-yield-curve) that introduces the concept of the yield curve. 10.3 • Using the Yield Curve 297