• Budget analyst: Reviews, plans, and evaluates an organization's financial activities • Credit analyst: Reviews financial and related information to determine the creditworthiness of potential clients and customers; typically works at commercial and investment banks, credit unions, and rating firms such as Moody's or Standard and Poor's • Financial analyst: Collects and examines data to plan future activities and evaluate past decisions • Personal financial advisor: Provides advice to clients for short-, intermediate-, and long-term financial planning • Loan officer: Helps individuals and organizations apply for loans and typically works for depository financial institutions such as commercial banks • Insurance underwriter: Evaluates risk and establishes prices for insurance products such as life, property, and casualty insurance • Financial examiner: Evaluates and monitors the activities of depository institutions in an effort to assure proper practice and behavior • Finance professor: Teaches college classes, engages in economic and financial research, and provides community service by serving on boards and providing financial expertise LINK TO LEARNING Best Jobs in Finance You can read more about possible careers in finance (https://openstax.org/r/thebalancecareers) at the Balance Careers website. Financial Analyst Roles Many executive-level finance officers worked their way up via the role of financial analyst. Job descriptions vary across firms, industries, and government organizations. However, the role of financial analyst usually includes market research, financial forecasting, modeling, cost analysis, and comparative valuations. Financial analysts gather data and produce financial reports in conjunction with multiple departments within a business or organization. They rely on marketing and production personnel to provide accurate sales forecasts, and they work with accountants to create accurate financial reports. As a financial analyst, you need strong spreadsheet skills, the ability to develop financial models and pro forma financial statements, outstanding analytical skills, and an overall understanding of business processes. Financial analysts possess a well-diversified collection of business and communication skills, both quantitative and qualitative. Figure 1.6 lists some tasks that financial analysts must perform on a daily basis. Some firms require an MBA or several years of business experience for their financial analysts. 1.4 • Careers in Finance 19