help mitigate such issues include the following: • Offering incentives to management for strong performance and ethical behavior • Awarding decision makers with stock packages, commissions, and other long-term compensation packages to encourage long-term thinking and matching of company objectives with shareholders' priorities • Penalizing poor performance, shortsightedness, and unethical behavior The prevailing belief in agency theory is that when a business creates organizational incentives that encourage hard work on projects that will benefit the company in both the short and long term, more employees will be encouraged to act in the business's best interest. Another means of resolving agency problems is through a hostile takeover of the organization. Even the threat of such a takeover may be effective in reducing or eliminating these conflicts of interest. A hostile corporate takeover tends to unify and discipline a management or agent group, thus fostering a union of agent and shareholder interests. When such a potential threat or outright ownership change is introduced to a company, its managers are more likely to act in the best long-term interests of the shareholders in order to maintain their leadership positions within the company. By better aligning agent (management) and principal (ownership) goals, agency theory attempts to bridge any gulfs among employees, employers, and stakeholders that are created by the principal-agent problem. While it is recognized as being nearly impossible for companies to eliminate the ongoing agency problem, it is also recognized that it is possible to minimize its negative effects. Impact of ESG Ratings In recent years, many publicly traded companies, as well as many that are privately owned, are being evaluated and rated according to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors. These ratings and evaluations are primarily conducted by third-party organizations. As a result, the investment community is using these reports and ratings to an ever-increasing degree in order to measure and assess corporate ESG factors and performance. Environmental, social, and governance issues have become an important part of the investment community's evaluation of publicly traded companies. Each component of what is now referred to as ESG has equal importance in ongoing corporate evaluations, as per Figure 2.3 below. It is critical for the senior management of any corporation to stay abreast of any and all ESG issues as they arise and take immediate corrective action when necessary. Figure 2.3 Importance of ESG Factors to a Business Concern ESG measurements and assessments have become very important to firms, as they often become the basis of formal and informal buy recommendations by investment professionals. ESG ratings were originally developed to assist in determining the general risk of ESG factors for any public company, but they have since grown to become unique scores used by investors to gauge the potential attractiveness of investment in the subject company. Because of the nature of these factors, firms that are rated with high ESG metrics are believed to 2.4 • Agency Issues: Shareholders and Corporate Boards 53