Once you know the weights in a company's capital structure and have estimated the costs of the different sources of its capital, you can calculate the company's weighted average cost of capital (WACC). WACC Equation WACC is calculated using the equation D%, P%, and E% represent the weight of debt, preferred stock, and common equity, respectively, in the capital structure. Note that must equal 100% because the company must account for 100% of its financing. The after-tax cost of debt is . The cost of preferred stock capital is represented by rpfd, and the cost of common stock capital is represented by re. For a company that does not issue preferred stock, P% is equal to zero, and the WACC equation is simply Earlier in this chapter, we calculated the weights in Bluebonnet Industries' capital structure to be and . We also calculated the after-tax cost of debt for Bluebonnet to be 4.99%. If we use the CAPM to estimate the cost of equity capital for the firm, Bluebonnet's WACC is computed as If we use the constant dividend discount model to estimate the cost of equity for Bluebonnet Industries, the WACC is computed as Calculating WACC in Practice The equation for calculating WACC is straightforward. However, issues come up when financial managers calculate WACC in practice. Both the weights of the equity components and the cost of the equity components are needed to calculate the WACC. The WACC that financial managers derive will depend on the assumptions and models they use to determine what weights and capital costs to use. Issues in Estimating the Cost of Equity Capital We have explored two ways of estimating the cost of equity capital: the CAPM and the constant dividend growth model. Often, these methods will produce similar estimates of the cost of capital; seldom will the two methods provide the same value. In our example for Bluebonnet Industries, the CAPM estimated the cost of equity capital as 13.4%. The constant dividend growth model estimated the cost of capital as 14.24%. The exact value of the WACC calculation depends on which of these estimates is used. It is important to remember that the WACC is an estimate that is based on a number of assumptions that financial managers made. For example, using the CAPM requires assumptions be made regarding the values of the risk-free interest rate, the market risk premium, and a firm's beta. The risk-free interest rate is generally determined using US Treasury security yields. In theory, the yield on US Treasury securities that have a maturity equivalent to the length of the company's investors' investment horizon should be used. It is common for financial analysts to use yields on long-term US Treasury bonds to determine the risk-free rate. To estimate the market risk premium, analysts turn to historical data. Because this historical data is used to estimate the future market risk premium, the question arises of how many years of historical data should be used. Using more years of historical data can lead to more accurate estimates of what the average past return has been, but very old data may have little relevance if today's financial market environment is different from what it was in the past. Old data may have little relevance for investors' expectations today. Typical market risk premiums used by financial managers range from 5% to 8%. 17.3 • Calculating the Weighted Average Cost of Capital 513