as payments are made on time, trade credit is thought of as a low-cost source of working capital. However, there is one possible cost associated with trade credit for companies that don't take advantage of cash discounts when offered by sellers. Using accounts payable to purchase goods and services can involve an opportunity cost-a cost of the forgone opportunity of making a quick payment and benefiting from a cash discount. A business that does not take advantage of a cash discount for early payment of trade credit will pay more for goods and services than a business that routinely takes advantage of discounts. The annual percentage rate of forgoing quick payment discounts can be estimated with the following formula: Example: Novelty Accessories Inc. (NAI) purchases products from a vendor that offers credit payment terms of 2/10, net 30. The annual cost to NAI of not taking advantage of the discount for quick payment is 36.73 percent. 19.3 Cash Management By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain why firms hold cash. • List instruments available to a financial manager for investing cash balances. Cash management means efficiently collecting cash from customers and managing cash outflows. To manage cash, the cash budget-a forward-looking document-is an important planning tool. To understand cash management, you must first understand what is meant by cash holdings and the motivations (reasons) for holding cash. A cash budget example is covered in Using Excel to Create the Short-Term Plan. Cash Holdings The cash holdings of a company are more than the currency and coins in the cash registers or the treasury vault. Cash includes currency and coins, but usually those amounts are insignificant compared to the cash holdings of checks to be deposited in the company's bank account and the balances in the company's checking accounts. Motivations for Holding Cash The initial answer to the question of why companies hold cash is pretty obvious: because cash is how we pay the bills-it is the medium of exchange. The transactional motive of holding cash means that checks and electronic funds transfers are necessary to meet the payroll (pay the employees), pay the vendors, satisfy creditors (principal and interest payments on loans), and reward stockholders with dividend payments. Cash for transaction is one reason to hold cash, but there is another reason-one that stems from uncertainty and the precautions you might take to be ready for the unexpected. Just as you keep cash balances in your checking and savings accounts and even a few dollars in your wallet or purse for unexpected expenditures, cash balances are also necessary for a business to provide for unexpected events. Emergencies might require a company to write a check for repairs, for an unexpected breakdown of equipment, or for hiring temporary workers. This motive of holding cash is called the precautionary motive. Some companies maintain a certain amount of cash instead of investing it in marketable securities or in upgrades or expansion of operations. This is called the speculative motive. Companies that want to quickly take advantage of unexpected opportunities want to be quick to purchase assets or to acquire a business, and a certain amount of cash or quick access to cash is necessary to jump on an opportunity. 19.3 • Cash Management 577