Figure 12.12 Baa Bonds versus T-Bonds Performance, 1980-2020 (data source: Aswath Damodaran Online) CONCEPTS IN PRACTICE Profile of Bill Gross Bill Gross may be the most successful fixed-income investor ever, but he is also a prime example of the application of the efficient market theory. In over 40 years of investing in bonds and other types of fixed- income securities worldwide, Bill Gross earned his moniker "the bond king." In 1971, Gross cofounded and began his long tenure as managing director and chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Company, better known as Pimco. Gross was not yet 30 years old, but he had already graduated from college, served in the Navy in Vietnam, and even briefly worked as a professional blackjack player in Las Vegas to bankroll the cost of his MBA from UCLA. Gross helped change the definition of success for bond investors by focusing on total returns, including price changes, rather than simply bond yields. He used mathematical modeling and invested worldwide and in different types of bond markets seeking risk-adjusted returns. Gross made active rather than passive management of bond funds a successful investment strategy. In the process, he changed how mangers oversee fixed-income portfolios today. Pimco grew into an investment powerhouse under Gross's direction, eventually managing over $1.5 trillion dollars in assets. During the financial crisis of 2008, Gross served as an adviser to the US Treasury. Morningstar named him "fixed income fund manager of the decade" in 2010. In addition, Gross profited from his investment prowess, amassing a fortune in excess of $2 billion. Gross's investment strategy was to carefully analyze the known factors about debt instruments and pair that analysis with the unknown future. He was uncanny in his ability to estimate future prices, interest rates, and macroeconomic conditions to make profitable investments. However, as efficient markets would posit, the odds began to catch up with Gross in the latter part of his investing career. After leaving Pimco in 2014, Gross was unable to match his earlier performance successes and failed to beat bond fund performance averages. Much of Gross's investment strategy allowed him to look for bond returns by investing in any type of bond, with any maturity, in any country, and in any location. For decades, he was right more often than wrong in his investment choices. However, statistically, 12.3 • Historical Picture of Returns to Bonds 369