by about $500 in March, $1,000 in April, $1,400 in May, and $2,000 per month in June, July, and August. We see the monthly adjustments to Clear Lake's latest sales forecast in Figure 18.11. March, for example, is now $10,908 ($10,408 prior estimate plus $500 increase from new brand). Figure 18.11 Forecasted Sales Data with New Brand What we have discussed here are only some brief examples of the myriad factors that might impact a sales budget for the coming year. It's critical that all members of the team take the time and effort to research their customers and the factors that impact their business in order to effectively assess the impact of these factors on future sales. Though only two adjustments were made here, it's likely that a large firm would have to consider many, many factors that would ultimately impact monthly sales figures before arriving at a conclusion. 18.3 Pro Forma Financials Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Define pro forma in the context of a financial forecast. • Describe the factors that impact the length of a financial forecast. • Explain the risks associated with a financial forecast. In this section of the chapter, we will move beyond the sales forecast and look at the general nature, length, and timeline of forecasts and the risks associated with using them. We'll look at why we use them, how long they generally are, what the key variables in a forecast are, and how we pair those variables with common-size analysis to develop the forecast. Purpose of a Forecast As mentioned earlier in the chapter, forecasts serve different purposes depending on who is using them. Our focus here, however, is the world of finance. In this realm, the key purpose of pro forma (future-looking) financial statements is to manage a firm's cash flow and assess the overall value that the firm is generating through future sales growth. Growing just for the sake of growing doesn't always yield favorable income for the firm. A larger top-line sales figure that results in lower net income doesn't make sense in the grand scheme of things. The same is true of profitable sales that don't generate enough cash flows at the right time. The firm may make a profit, but if it doesn't manage the timing of its cash flows, it could be forced to shut down if it can't cover the costs of payroll or keep the lights on. Forecasting helps assess both cash flow and the profitability of future growth. Managers can forecast cash flow using data from forecasted financial statements; this allows them to identify potential gaps in cash and plan ahead in order to either alter collection and payment policies or obtain funding to cover the gap in the timing of cash flows. LINK TO LEARNING Pro Forma Financial Statements Review the video Business Plan and Pro-Forma Financial Statements (https://openstax.org/r/ Business_Plan_and_Pro-Forma_Financial_Statements) to learn about the basics of pro forma financial statements and why they are helpful. 544 18 • Financial Forecasting Access for free at openstax.org