Step Description Enter Display 13 Press [SET] until LIN appears 2ND 2ND [SET] LIN 14 Move to 1st statistical result ↓ 13.00 15 Move to next statistical result ↓ 3,480.86 16 Continue to scroll down until the value of r is displayed ↓ 0.93 Table 14.3 Calculator Steps for Finding the Relationship between Nike Stock Price and Value of S&P 5001 From the statistical results shown on the calculator display, the correlation coefficient r is 0.93, which indicates that the relationship between Nike stock and the value of the S&P 500 over this time period represents a strong, positive correlation. Note: A strong correlation does not suggest that x causes y or y causes x. We must remember that correlation does not imply causation. Test a Correlation Coefficient for Significance The correlation coefficient, r, tells us about the strength and direction of the linear relationship between x and y. The sample data are used to compute r, the correlation coefficient for the sample. If we had data for the entire population (that is, all measurements of interest), we could find the population correlation coefficient, which is labeled as the Greek letter ρ (pronounced "rho"). But because we have only sample data, we cannot calculate the population correlation coefficient. The sample correlation coefficient, r, is our estimate of the unknown population correlation coefficient. • ρ = population correlation coefficient (unknown) • r = sample correlation coefficient (known; calculated from sample data) An important step in the correlation analysis is to determine if the correlation is significant. By this, we are asking if the correlation is strong enough to allow meaningful predictions for y based on values of x. One method to test the significance of the correlation is to employ a hypothesis test. The hypothesis test lets us decide whether the value of the population correlation coefficient ρ is close to zero or significantly different from zero. We decide this based on the sample correlation coefficient r and the sample size n. If the test concludes that the correlation coefficient is significantly different from zero, we say that the correlation coefficient is significant. • Conclusion: There is sufficient evidence to conclude that there is a significant linear relationship between x and y variables because the correlation coefficient is significantly different from zero. • What the conclusion means: There is a significant linear relationship between the x and y variables. If the test concludes that the correlation coefficient is not significantly different from zero (it is close to zero), we say that the correlation coefficient is not significant. A hypothesis test can be performed to test if the correlation is significant. A hypothesis test is a statistical method that uses sample data to test a claim regarding the value of a population parameter. In this case, the hypothesis test will be used to test the claim that the population correlation coefficient ρ is equal to zero. Use these hypotheses when performing the hypothesis test: • Null hypothesis: • Alternate hypothesis: The hypotheses can be stated in words as follows: • Null hypothesis : The population correlation coefficient is not significantly different from zero. There is not a significant linear relationship (correlation) between x and y in the population. 422 14 • Regression Analysis in Finance Access for free at openstax.org