debt and equity costs of capital. The average of a firm's debt and equity costs of capital, weighted by the fractions of the firm's value that correspond to debt and equity, is known as the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The weights in the WACC are the proportions of debt and equity used in the firm's capital structure. If, for example, a company is financed 25% by debt and 75% by equity, the weights in the WACC would be 25% on the debt cost of capital and 75% on the equity cost of capital. The balance sheet of the company would look like Figure 17.3. These weights can be derived from the right-hand side of a market-value-based balance sheet. Recall that accounting-based book values listed on traditional financial statements reflect historical costs. The market- value balance sheet is similar to the accounting balance sheet, but all values are current market values. Figure 17.3 Balance Sheet of Company with Capital Structure of 25% Debt and 75% Equity Just as the accounting balance sheet must balance, the market-value balance sheet must balance: This equation reminds us that the values of a company's debt and equity flow from the market value of the company's assets. Let's look at an example of how a company would calculate the weights in its capital structure. Bluebonnet Industries has debt with a book (face) value of $5 million and equity with a book value of $3 million. Bluebonnet's debt is trading at 97% of its face value. It has one million shares of stock, which are trading for $15 per share. First, the market values of the company's debt and equity must be determined. Bluebonnet's debt is trading at a discount; its market value is . The market value of Bluebonnet's equity equals . Thus, the total market value of the company's capital is . The weight of debt in Bluebonnet's capital structure is . The weight of equity in its capital structure is . 17.2 The Costs of Debt and Equity Capital By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Calculate the after-tax cost of debt capital. • Explain why the return to debt holders is not the same as the cost to the firm. • Calculate the cost of equity capital. The costs of debt and equity capital are what company lenders (those who allow the firm to use their capital) expect in return for providing that capital. Just as current market values of debt and equity should be used in determining their weights in the capital structure, current market values of debt and equity should be used in determining the costs of those types of financing. 17.2 • The Costs of Debt and Equity Capital 509