corporation for how they may use the bond proceeds. A bond indenture includes both standard boilerplate contract language and specific conditions unique to a particular issue. Because of these non-standardized features of a bond contract, the secondary market for trading used bonds typically requires a broker, dealer, or investment company to facilitate a trade. When a corporation uses a real asset, such as property or buildings, to guarantee a bond, the firm has issued a mortgage bond. However, it is more common for a corporation to issue an unsecured bond known as a debenture. The risk of a debenture reflects the risk of the entire corporation and does not rely on the value of a specific underlying asset, as is the case with a mortgage bond. The risk a bondholder bears for buying a bond depends in part on the terms of the bond indenture, market conditions over the life of the bond contract, and the ability or inability of the firm to generate sufficient cash flows to meet its bond obligations. Fortunately, investors do not have to make these determinations about risk on their own. They can rely on bond rating services such as Moody's, Standard and Poor's, or Fitch to generate evaluations of the creditworthiness of bond issuers. Ratings firms must adhere to rigorous standards when evaluating client creditworthiness. For example, Standard and Poor's begins the explanation of its evaluation process with these paragraphs: "S&P Global Ratings provides a Credit Rating only when, in its opinion, there is information of satisfactory quality to form a credible opinion on creditworthiness, consistent with its Quality of the Rating Process - Sufficient Information (Quality of Information) Policy, and only after applicable quantitative, qualitative, and legal analyses are performed. Throughout the ratings and surveillance process, the analytical team reviews information from both public and nonpublic sources." "For corporate, government, and financial services company or entity (collectively referred to as "C&G" Credit Ratings), the analysis generally includes historical and projected financial information, industry and/or economic data, peer comparisons, and details on planned financings. In addition, the analysis is based on qualitative factors, such as the institutional or governance framework, the financial strategy of the rated entity and, generally, the experience and credibility of management."4 Table 12.2 is a summary of how the three major credit rating agencies identify their ratings. Bond ratings are important for many reasons. The higher a firm's rating, the lower the expected default risk and the lower the cost of borrowing for the firm. Pension funds may be restricted to investing in only medium- or higher-grade bonds. This could limit the number of investors who can participate in the market for lower-grade bonds, thereby reducing the liquidity, price, and tradability of those debt securities. There are only two US companies with AAA credit ratings: Microsoft and Johnson & Johnson.5 Over the past 40 years, there has been a steady decline of AAA-rated companies (from sixty in 1980). Many institutions have found that this rating requires a more conservative approach to debt that can inhibit growth and revenue. So, in today's market, credit ratings have begun to lose their importance. It seems that the ability to pay debts has become secondary to the potential for growth. Fitch Moody's S&P Bond Grade/Risk AAA Aaa AAA Investment/low risk AA Aa AA Investment/low risk A A A Investment/low risk Table 12.2 Credit Scale Ratings from the Three Credit Rating Agencies 4 S&P Global Ratings. "Transparency Statement." S&P Global Ratings. https://www.spglobal.com/ratings/en/about/transparency 5 The Wall Street Insider. "Why Only Two Companies Are Left with the AAA Rating." The Wall Street Insider. June 12, 2020. https://www.thewallstreetinsider.com/trends/why-only-two-companies-are-left-with-the-aaa-rating 358 12 • Historical Performance of US Markets Access for free at openstax.org