c. provides an objective criterion for an accept-or-reject decision grounded in financial theory d. discounts cash flows using the company's cost of funds to overcome a flaw of the payback period method 8. Which of the following is a method of adjustment for comparing projects of different lives? a. IRR b. Modified IRR c. Payback period d. Equal annuity 9. When a company can only fund some of its good projects, it should rank the projects by ________. a. PI b. IRR c. NPV d. payback period 10. If a company is considering two mutually exclusive projects, which of the following statements is true? a. The company must do both projects if it chooses to do one of the projects. b. The IRR method should be used to compare the projects. c. Doing one of the projects means the other project cannot be done. d. The company does not need to compare the projects because it can choose to do both. Review Questions 1. Describe the disadvantages of using the payback period to evaluate a project. 2. Explain why a company would want to accept a project with a positive NPV and reject a project with a negative NPV. 3. Westland Manufacturing could spend $5,000 to update its existing fluorescent lighting fixtures to newer fluorescent fixtures that would be more energy efficient. Explain why updating the light fixtures with newer fluorescent fixtures and replacing the existing fixtures with LED fixtures would be considered mutually exclusive projects. 4. When faced with a decision between two good but mutually exclusive projects, should a manager base the decision on NPV or IRR? Why? Problems 1. Westland Manufacturing spends $20,000 to update the lighting in its factory to more energy-efficient LED fixtures. This will save the company $4,000 per year in electricity costs. What is the payback period of this project? 2. Westland Manufacturing spends $20,000 to update the lighting in its factory to more energy-efficient LED fixtures. This will save the company $4,000 per year in electricity costs. The company estimates that these fixtures will last for 10 years. If the company's cost of funds is 8%, what is the NPV of this project? 3. If Westland Manufacturing finds that its cost of funds is 11%, what will happen to the NPV of the project in problem 2? 4. Westland Manufacturing spends $20,000 to update the lighting in its factory to more energy-efficient LED fixtures. This will save the company $4,000 per year in electricity costs. The company estimates that these fixtures will last for 10 years. What is the IRR of this project? 16 • Review Questions 503