more dollars in receivables. Almost all businesses will have times when additional working capital is needed to pay bills, meet the payroll (salaries and wages), and plan for accrued expenses. The wait for the cash to flow into the company's treasury from the collection of receivables and cash sales can be longer during tough times. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the US government made paycheck protection program (PPP) loans available to help alleviate working capital problems for small and large business when the economy slowed because of shutdowns and social distancing. And although 60 percent of the PPP loan proceeds were to go to cover payroll-related costs, 40 percent could be used to bolster working capital to meet rent, utilities costs, and some interest expense while companies were "treading water"-waiting for positive cash flow to pick up under a recovery.2 It isn't just during downturns that working capital is strained. Growing companies, even if they are extremely profitable, need additional working capital as they ramp up operations by acquiring raw materials, component parts, supplies, or other forms of inventory; hiring temporary or additional employees; and taking on new projects. Whenever additional resources are needed, working capital is also needed. Some of the current assets and expenditures needed in a growing company may need to be financed from sources that are not spontaneous financing-trade credit (accounts payable). Such forms of external financing such as lines of credit, short-term bank loans, inventory-based loans (also called floor planning), and the factoring of accounts receivables might have to be relied upon. 19.2 What Is Trade Credit? By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Compute the cost of trade credit. • Define cash discount. • Define discount period. • Define credit period. Trade credit, also known as accounts payable, is a critical part of a business's working capital management strategy. Trade credit is granted by vendors to creditworthy companies when those companies purchase materials, inventory, and services. A company's purchasing system is usually integrated with other functions such production planning and sales forecasting. Purchasing managers search for and evaluate vendors, negotiate order quantities, and prepare purchase orders. In carrying out the purchasing process, credit terms are granted by the company's vendors and purchases of inventory and services can be made on trade credit accounts-allowing the purchaser time to pay. The purchaser carries an accounts payable balance until the account is paid. Trade credit is referred to as spontaneous financing, as it occurs spontaneously with the gearing up of operations and the additional investment in current assets. Think of it this way: If sales are increasing, so too is production. Increased sales mean more current assets (accounts receivable and inventory), and increased sales mean increases in accounts payable (financing happening spontaneously with increased sales and inventory purchases). Compared to other financing arrangements, such as lines of credit and bank loans, trade credit is convenient, simple, and easy to use. Once a company is approved for trade credit, there is no paperwork or contracts to sign, as is the case with various forms of bank financing. Invoices specify the credit terms, and there is usually no interest expense associated with trade credit. Accounts payable is a type of obligation that is interest-free and is distinguished from debt obligations, such as notes payable, that require the creditor to pay back principal and interest. 2 US Small Business Administration. "PPP Loan Forgiveness." n.d. https://www.sba.gov/funding-programs/loans/covid-19-relief- options/paycheck-protection-program/ppp-loan-forgiveness 19.2 • What Is Trade Credit? 575