mandated lockdowns. Locations that were able to service customers through drive-up windows were not immune to declining revenue due to the pandemic. As fewer people gathered in the workplace, Starbucks experienced a declining number of to-go orders from meeting attendees. In addition, Starbucks locations faced the risk of illness spreading as baristas gathered in their buildings to fill to-go orders. While COVID-19 brought discussions of risk to the forefront of everyday conversations, risk was an important focus of companies such as Starbucks before the pandemic began. (The term risk appeared in the company's 2019 annual report 82 times.4 ) Starbucks's business model revolves around turning coffee beans into a pleasurable drink. Anything that impacts the company's ability to procure coffee beans, produce a drink, and sell that drink to the customer will impact the company's profitability. The investors in the company have allowed Starbucks to use its capital to lease storefronts, purchase espresso machines, and obtain all of the assets necessary for the company to operate. Debt holders expect interest to be paid and their principal to be returned. Stockholders expect a return on their investment. Because investors are risk averse, the riskier they perceive the cash flows they will receive from the business to be, the higher the expected return they will require to let the company use their money. This required return is a cost of doing business. Thus, the riskier the cash flows of a company, the higher the cost of obtaining capital. As any cost of operating a business increases, the value of the firm declines. LINK TO LEARNING Starbucks The most recent annual report for Starbucks Corp., along with the reports from recent years, is available on the company's investor relations website under the Financial Data section (https://openstax.org/r/ Financial_Data_section). Go to the most recent annual report for the company. Search for the word risk in the annual report, and read the discussions surrounding this topic. Note the major types of risk the company discusses. Pay attention to the types of risk that Starbucks categorizes as uncontrollable and which types of risk the company attempts to mitigate. In the following sections, you will learn about some of the types of risk that firms commonly face. You will also learn about ways in which firms can reduce their exposure to these risks. When firms take actions to reduce their exposures to risk, they are said to be hedging. Firms hedge to try to protect themselves from losses. Thus, in finance, hedging is a risk management tool. Certain strategies are commonly used by firms to hedge risk, which is part of corporate financial management. Many of these same strategies can be used by economic players who wish to speculate. Speculating occurs when someone bets on a future outcome. It involves trying to predict the future and profit off of that prediction, knowing that there is some risk that an incorrect prediction will lead to a loss. Speculators bet on the future direction of an asset price. Thus, speculation involves directional bets. If you are concerned that the price of hand sanitizer is going to rise because people are concerned about a new virus and you purchase a few extra bottles to keep on your shelf "just in case," you are hedging. If you see this situation as a business opportunity and purchase bottles of hand sanitizer, hoping that you can sell them on eBay in a few weeks at twice what you paid for them, you are speculating. In the popular press, you will often hear of some of the strategies in this chapter discussed in terms of people using them to speculate. In upper-level finance courses, these strategies are discussed in more depth, including how they might be used to speculate. In this chapter, however, the focus is on the perspective of a financial manager using these strategies to manage risk. 4 Starbucks. Starbucks Fiscal 2019 Annual Report. Seattle: Starbucks Corporation, 2019. https://s22.q4cdn.com/869488222/files/ doc_financials/2019/2019-Annual-Report.pdf 20.1 • The Importance of Risk Management 601