of financial statements and intrinsic value to examine the character of executive management. He applied the same criteria to hiring employees as well. Buffett once noted, "We look for three things when we hire people. We look for intelligence, we look for initiative or energy, and we look for integrity. And if they don't have the latter, the first two will kill you, because if you're going to get someone without integrity, you want them lazy and dumb." When speaking of integrity, Buffett went on to say, "Only when the tide goes out do you discover who's been swimming naked." Buffett's folksy way of making his point will undoubtedly be another of his legacies. When asked repeatedly about how he managed to be such a successful investor, Buffett replied, "Never invest in a business you can't understand." Never was this truer than in the late 1990s and 2000, when the dot-com craze fueled the stock market with technology firms enjoying tremendous price increases without the corresponding earnings. Buffett's value investing lagged until the bubble burst, and suddenly he was back on top. When asked about his change in fortune he replied, "In the business world, the rearview mirror is always clearer than the windshield." Buffett believes in long-term rather than short-term investing. He once remarked that "Someone's sitting in the shade today because someone planted a tree a long time ago" and "If you aren't willing to own a stock for 10 years, don't even think about owning it for 10 minutes." The third aspect of Buffett's legacy will be how his money works now and after he is gone. With Bill and Melinda Gates, Buffett started the Giving Pledge, and to date they have gathered the pledge of over 200 billionaires to give away half or more of their fortune during and after their lifetimes. Buffett states, "If you're in the luckiest 1% of humanity, you owe it to the rest of humanity to think about the other 99%." Buffett has begun the process to give away most of his fortune, but he has left this pearl of wisdom for his own children: "A very rich person should leave his kids enough to do anything, but not enough to do nothing." (Sources: Joshua Kennon. "How Warren Buffett Became One of the Wealthiest People in America." The Balance. May 4, 2021. https://www.thebalance.com/warren-Buffett-timeline-356439; Ty Haqqi. "Five Largest Financial Services Companies in the World." Insider Monkey. November 26, 2020. https://www.insidermonkey.com/blog/5-largest-financial-services-companies-in-the-world-891348/2/; Mohit Oberoi. "Warren Buffett: Growth Stocks Look Like Dot-Com Bubble." Market Realist. September 4, 2020. https://marketrealist.com/2020/07/warren-buffett-growth-stocks-like-dot-com-bubble/) LINK TO LEARNING Does It Pay to Invest Globally? On a global basis, US equity markets have been among the highest performing since 1900. Only Australia shows a higher average annual return over the 121-year period. Many factors contribute to long-run stock performance in any given country. However, over the period studied, the United States benefited from an entrepreneurial spirit and distance from the center of two world wars. An article reviewing global stock market returns from 1900 to 2020 summarizes and analyzes global market return information created by researchers Elroy Dimson, Paul Marsh, and Mike Staunton for Credit Suisse.21 While most established economies have not generated higher returns than the US equity markets, they do offer the benefits of diversification. Further, the greatest return potential-and the greatest risk of 21 Karl Steiner. "Historical Returns of Global Stocks." Mindfully Investing. July 6, 2020. https://www.mindfullyinvesting.com/ historical-returns-of-global-stocks/; Elroy Dimson, Paul Marsh, and Mike Staunton. Summary Edition Credit Suisse Global Investment Returns Yearbook 2020. Credit Suisse, February 2020. https://www.credit-suisse.com/media/assets/corporate/docs/about-us/ research/publications/credit-suisse-global-investment-returns-yearbook-2020-summary-edition.pdf 374 12 • Historical Performance of US Markets Access for free at openstax.org