• Improving customer satisfaction with customer services If managers are to help stockholders maximize their wealth, they must know how that wealth is determined in the first place. One of the main concepts in finance is that the value of any asset is determined by the present value of the stream of cash flows that the asset will provide to its owners over the course of time. In subsequent chapters, we will also be covering stock valuation in depth, and we will see that stock prices are based on cash flows expected in future years, not only on those coming in at the present time. For these reasons, stock price maximization, which leads directly to maximizing shareholder wealth, requires us to take a long-term view of company operations. It is also important to realize that managerial actions that affect a company's value may not immediately be reflected in the price of a company's stock but rather will become evident in the long-term prospects of the organization. In the case of privately held companies, smaller firms, and sole proprietorships, there are no shareholders. However, attention to long-term growth and maximizing the value of a firm is just as important a goal to the owners, who are also usually senior management with the company. 2.1 Business Structures Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify the business form created by most organizations. • Contrast the advantages and disadvantages that the corporate form has over sole proprietorships. • Contrast the advantages and disadvantages that the corporate form has over partnerships. • List and describe characteristics associated with a hybrid business structure. The Most Common Types of Business Organization The functions of most executive management teams are very similar for most businesses, and they will not differ in any significant manner based on how they may be structured or organized. However, the legal structure of any company will have a substantial impact on its operations, and it therefore deserves a significant amount of analysis and discussion. The four most common forms of business organizations are the following: 1. Sole proprietorships 2. Partnerships 3. Corporations 4. Hybrids, such as limited liability companies (LLCs) and limited liability partnerships (LLPs) The vast majority of businesses take the form of a proprietorship. However, based on the total dollar value of combined sales, more than 80 percent of all business in the United States is conducted by a corporation.1 Because corporations engage in the most business, and because most successful businesses eventually convert into corporations, we will focus on corporations in this chapter. However, it is still important to understand the legal differences between different types of firms and their advantages and disadvantages. Sole Proprietorships A proprietorship is typically defined as an unincorporated business owned by a single person. The process of forming a business as a sole proprietor is usually a simple matter. A business owner merely decides to begin conducting business operations, and that person is immediately off and running. Compared to other forms of business organizations, proprietorships have the following four important advantages: 1. They have a basic structure and are simple and inexpensive to form. 1 Aaron Krupkin and Adam Looney. "9 Facts about Pass-Through Businesses." Brookings. The Brookings Institution, May 15, 2017. https://www.brookings.edu/research/9-facts-about-pass-through-businesses 40 2 • Corporate Structure and Governance Access for free at openstax.org