Collecting Interest Income As we have covered, when investors buy bonds, they are lending money to bond issuers. The coupon rate of a bond is determined by the issuer and is generally tied to the overall level of interest rates in the economy at the time of issue as well as the maturity period of the bond and the credit rating of the issuer. The established coupon rate then governs how much periodic interest is paid to bondholders. For example, if an investor purchases a 5%, $1,000 bond with a 20-year maturity and annual coupon payments, that investor will receive 20 coupon payments equal to or for a total of $1,000. Depending on interest and inflation rates over the 20-year period, this could be a very favorable situation resulting in significant realized return for the investor. However, if interest rates and inflation over the investment period are at high levels, the investment is not nearly as attractive. Generating Capital Gains Many bonds are not held until their maturity dates. Should an investor require funds before maturity, they have the option to sell them through a broker in the secondary market. When this situation occurs, the investor may earn a capital gain or experience a capital loss, depending on whether the bond ends up being sold at a premium (above face value) or at a discount (below face value). For example, if an investor bought a corporate bond yielding 7% and then the economy changed so that comparable bonds yielded 10%, the investor would have to lower their price on the original 7% bond until it also yielded the 10% market rate. Potential investors would not be very likely to buy the bond if they could simply buy a newly issued bond from an alternate issuer and receive a higher coupon rate. It is equally possible that prevailing bond rates could fall and an investor could end up selling their bond at a higher price, thus earning a capital gain. Bond Laddering as an Investment Strategy There are several successful strategies for successful bond investments, but perhaps one of the most common yet ingenious of these strategies is called bond laddering. Bond ladders help investors achieve diversity in their portfolios and reduce risk while helping maintain regular cash inflows in the form of coupon payments or interest. In a bond ladder, an investor will divide their total investment dollars among various bonds that mature at regular intervals, thereby balancing risk and return. An example of a bond ladder would be to purchase 10 different bonds that have maturities of one year, two years, three years, and so on, all the way through to 10 years. When the first bond matures, the investor will purchase a new bond that matures in 10 years to take its place in the ladder and continue the overall laddering strategy. This strategy has several benefits. First, the shorter-term bonds in the ladder provide stability because they are less sensitive to risk than longer-term bonds. The longer-term bonds within the ladder will generally provide higher returns but with higher risk due to such factors as rising interest rates. So, by investing in bonds with different maturities and creating a bond ladder, investors can realize superior financial returns to what they would earn by only investing in short-term bonds. Also, the general level of risk from a bond ladder is reduced by the shorter-term component of the investment mix, making the bond ladder less risky than an investment that only included long-term bonds. It is easy to see why bond laddering has become such a highly adopted bond investment strategy with investors ranging from novice to the most well-seasoned and experienced. Interest Rate Movements and Bond Prices We now know that when investors buy bonds, either directly or through mutual funds, they are lending money to bond-issuing firms or governments. In turn, issuers promise to pay back the principal (par or face value) when the loan is due at the bond's maturity date. 10.4 • Risks of Interest Rates and Default 305