Figure 19.10 Sample Cash Budget Using Figure 19.9 as an example, Table 19.5 shows the formulas that form the skeleton of a monthly cash budget. Beginning Cash Balance This is the amount of cash the company expects to have on the first day of the month. For example, in Figure 19.10, cell B2 is the amount of cash on Jan. 1 to start the year (the planning period). The remaining beginning cash balances for the months February through December are the ending cash balances of the previous month. For example, February's beginning cash balance (C2) is referenced from cell B9 (ending cash balance for January). Cash Collections These are the projected cash inflows from collections from customers (accounts receivable), cash sales, and any other significant cash inflows, such as dividends and interest on investments or sale of fixed assets. For example, the Cash Collections shown in the Sample Cash Budget (Figure 19.10) are referenced from the Sales and Collections Budget (Figure 19.7). January's Cash Collections (cell B3) in the Sample Cash Budget are from cell B12 of the Sales and Collection Budget. Cash Disbursements Cash disbursements are the projected cash outflows, such as those for operating expenses and payment of payables. For example, Cash Disbursements in the Sample Cash Budget for January (Figure 19.10) are the sum of January's payments for purchases in the Purchases Budget (Figure 19.8, cell B3) and the January operating expenses (Operating Expenses Budget, Figure 19.9, cell B12). Net Cash Flow The formula for net cash flow is For example, in Figure 19.10, the January Net Cash Flow is calculated in cell B5. Preliminary Ending Cash Balance Beginning Cash Balance + or - Net Cash Flow. This is the projected cash balance before taking into account the target cash balance to be maintained (minimum cash balance). In the Sample Cash Budget (Figure 19.10), the preliminary ending cash balance formula for January is =B2+B5 (B2 is the Beginning Cash Balance and B5 is the Net Cash Flow for the month). Less: Minimum Cash Balance This is a target cash balance that management sets; it is the minimum amount of cash that should be maintained by the company (in Figure 19.10, cells B2:G7 and B17:G17). Table 19.5 Excel Formulas for Monthly Cash Budget 588 19 • The Importance of Trade Credit and Working Capital in Planning Access for free at openstax.org