expanding into areas such as trading of futures contracts, paper products, electricity, water, pipelines, and broadband services. Reported revenues grew at an exceptional pace, Enron's stock price continued to rise, and business was proceeding exceptionally well. However, things were not as they appeared on the surface. Enron's financial statements were often very confusing to shareholders and analysts. Additionally, Enron's unscrupulous business practices included revenue misstatements and other questionable accounting practices to indicate favorable financial performance. On top of this, some of Enron's speculative business ventures proved to be disastrous, resulting in substantial financial losses. Initial allegations against Enron also focused on the role of their public accountants, Arthur Andersen. Andersen was one of the Big Five accounting firms in the United States at that time and had served as Enron's auditing firm for over 16 years. According to court documents, Enron and Arthur Andersen had improperly categorized hundreds of millions of dollars of transactions as increases to the company's shareholder equity. It was also later discovered that Andersen failed to follow generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) when considering Enron's dealings with related partnerships. As a result, Enron was able to conceal some of its losses from the investing public. After investigation by the United States Justice Department, the firm was indicted on obstruction of justice charges in March 2002. The combination of all of these irregularities and issues resulted in the December 2, 2001, bankruptcy of the corporation.7 It was later determined that the majority of these unethical issues had been perpetuated with the indirect knowledge or even, in some cases, by the direct actions of the board of directors or senior operational management of the company. Specifics and Enron's Bond Ratings On October 27, 2001, the company began buying back all its commercial paper, valued at around $3.3 billion, in an effort to calm investor fears about Enron's supply of cash. On November 8, Enron announced that restatements to its financial statements for the years 1997-2000 were necessary to correct several accounting violations. However, by November 28, 2001, credit rating agencies had reduced Enron's bond rating to junk status.8 Other Examples of Significant Bond Ratings Downgrades Some companies that have recently experienced downgrades (or potential downgrades) to their credit and bond ratings include Delta Airlines, Ford, Occidental Petroleum, Carnival Cruises, and T-Mobil. Some of these businesses, such as Delta and Carnival, are suffering the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, but the hope is that they don't experience the same disastrous fate as Enron. (sources: www.britannica.com/event/Enron-scandal; www.journalofaccountancy.com/issues/2002/apr/ theriseandfallofenron.html; corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/knowledge/other/enron-scandal/; www.wsj.com/articles/corporate-bond-downgrades-grow-as-coronavirus-spreads-11585849497) Concepts of Bond Returns Bond investors earn profits through two different means: collecting interest income and generating capital gains. These are important concepts for any investor who considers putting their money in fixed-income securities such as bonds. 7 Douglas O. Linder. "Enron (Lay & Skilling) Trial (2006)." Famous Trials. Accessed November 24, 2021. https://famous-trials.com/ enron 8 Paul M. Healy and Krishna G. Palepu. "The Fall of Enron." Journal of Economic Perspectives 17, no. 2 (Spring 2003): 3-26. https://doi.org/10.1257/089533003765888403 304 10 • Bonds and Bond Valuation Access for free at openstax.org