take the economy 72/4, or 18, years to effectively double. Now, if the economic growth slips to 2%, the economy will double in , or 36, years. However, if the rate of growth increases to 11%, the economy will effectively double in , or 6.55, years. By performing such calculations, it becomes obvious that reducing the time it takes to grow an economy, or increasing its rate of growth, could end up being very important to a population, given its current level of technological innovation and development. It is also very easy to use the rule of 72 to express future costs being impacted by inflation or future savings amounts that are earning interest. To apply another example, if the inflation rate in an economy were to increase from 2% to 3%, consumers would lose half of the purchasing power of their money. This is calculated as the value of their money doubling in , or 24, years as compared to , or 36, years-quite a substantial difference. Now, let's say that tuition costs at a certain college are increasing at a rate of 7% per year, which happens to be greater than current inflation rates. In this case, tuition costs would end up doubling in , or about 10.3, years. In an example related to personal finance, we can say that if you happen to have an annual percentage rate of 24% interest on your credit card and you do not make any payments to reduce your balance, the total amount you owe to the credit card company will double in only , or 3, years. So, as we have seen, the rule of 72 can clearly demonstrate how a relatively small difference of 1 percentage point in GDP growth or inflation rates can have significant effects on any short- or long-term economic forecasting models. It is important to understand that the rule of 72 can be applied in any scenario where we have a quantity or an amount that is in the process of growing or is expected to grow for any period of time into the future. A good nonfinancial use of the rule of 72 might be to apply it to some population projections. For example, an increase in a country's population growth rate from 2% to 3% could present a serious problem for the planning of facilities and infrastructure in that country. Instead of needing to double overall economic capacity in or 36, years, capacity would have to be expanded in only , or 24, years. It is easy to see how dramatic an effect this would be when we consider that the entire schedule for growth or infrastructure would be reduced by 12 years due to a simple and relatively small 1% increase in population growth. Investing and Risk Investing is usually a sound financial strategy if you have the money to do so. When investing, however, there are certain risks you should always consider first when applying the concepts of the time value of money. For example, making the decision to take $1,000 and invest it in your favorite company, even if it is expected to provide a 5% return each year, is not a guarantee that you will earn that return-or any return at all, for that matter. Instead, as with any investment, you will be accepting the risk of losing some or even all of your money in exchange for the opportunity to beat inflation and increase your future overall wealth. Essentially, it is risk and return that are responsible for the entire idea of the time value of money. Risk and return are the factors that will cause a rational person to believe that a dollar risked should end up earning more than that single dollar. To summarize, the concept of the time value of money and the related TVM formulas are extremely important because they can be used in different circumstances to help investors and savers understand the value of their money today relative to its earning potential in the future. TVM is critical to understanding the effect that inflation has on your money and why saving your money early can help increase the value of your savings dollars by giving them time to grow and outpace the effects of inflation. 220 7 • Time Value of Money I: Single Payment Value Access for free at openstax.org