Summary 15.1 Risk and Return to an Individual Asset Investors are interested in both the return they can expect to receive when making an investment and the risk associated with that investment. In finance, risk is considered the volatility of the return from time period to time period. Historical returns are measured by the arithmetic average, and the risk is measured by the standard deviation of returns. 15.2 Risk and Return to Multiple Assets As investors hold multiple assets in a portfolio, they are able to eliminate firm-specific risk. However, systematic or market risk remains, even if an investor holds the market portfolio. The return to a portfolio is measured by the arithmetic average, and the risk is measured by the standard deviation of the returns of the portfolio. The risk of the portfolio will be lower than the weighted average of the risk of the individual securities because the returns of the securities are not perfectly correlated. A low or negative return for one stock in a period can be offset by a high return for another stock in the same period. 15.3 The Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) The capital asset pricing model (CAPM) relates the expected return of an asset to the systematic risk of that asset. Investors will be rewarded for taking on systematic risk. They will not be rewarded for taking on firm- specific risk, however, because that risk can be diversified away. 15.4 Applications in Performance Measurement Because investors are not simply interested in returns but are also interested in risk, the success of a portfolio cannot be measured simply by considering the portfolio's return. In order to compare investment portfolios, risk and return must both be taken into consideration. The Sharpe ratio and the Treynor ratio are two measures that provide a reward-to-risk measure of a portfolio. Jensen's alpha provides a measure of the abnormal return of a portfolio, considering the portfolio's risk level. 15.5 Using Excel to Make Investment Decisions Using Excel to manipulate publicly available stock data makes calculating the average return of a stock and the standard deviation of returns easy. The average return for a portfolio and the standard deviation of the portfolio returns can also be calculated easily. By comparing the returns of a stock with the returns of the overall market using Excel charting tools, the beta for a stock, which measures systematic risk, can be determined. Key Terms arithmetic average return the sum of an asset's annual returns over a number of years divided by the number of years beta a measure of how a stock moves relative to the market capital asset pricing model (CAPM) the expected return of a security, equal to the risk-free rate plus a premium for the amount of risk taken capital gain yield the difference between the price a stock is sold for and the price that was originally paid for it divided by the price originally paid diversification holding a variety of assets in a portfolio dividend yield the total dividends received by the owner of a share of stock divided by the price originally paid for the stock effective annual rate (EAR) returns expressed on an annualized or yearly basis; allows for the comparison of various investments firm-specific risk the risk that an event may impact the expected revenue or costs of a firm, thereby 472 15 • Summary Access for free at openstax.org