the periods example. So, if we are now working with a slightly shorter time frame for the savings to grow from $15,000 into $25,000, then we would expect to have a slightly greater growth rate. That is exactly how the answer turns out, as the calculated required interest rate of approximately 6.19% is just slightly greater than the growth rate of 6% used in the previous example. So, based on this, it looks like our answer here passes a simple "sanity check" review. 7.4 Applications of TVM in Finance Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain how the time value of money can impact your personal financial goals. • Explain how the time value of money is related to inflation. • Explain how the time value of money is related to financial risk. • Explain how compounding period frequency affects the time value of money. Single-Period Scenario Let's say you want to buy a new car next year, and the one you have your eye on should be selling for $20,000 a year from now. How much will you need to put away today at 5% interest to have $20,000 a year from now? Essentially, you are trying to determine how much $20,000 one year from now is worth today at 5% interest over the year. To find a present value, we reverse the growth concept and lower or discount the future value back to the current period. The interest rate that we use to determine the present value of a future cash flow is referred to as the discount rate because it is bringing the money back in time in terms of its value. The discount rate refers to the annual rate of reduction on a future value and is the inverse of the growth rate. Once we know this discount rate, we can solve for the present value (PV), the value today of tomorrow's cash flow. By changing the FV equation, we can turn into which is the present value equation. The fraction shown above is referred to as the present value interest factor (PVIF). The PVIF is simply the reciprocal of the FVIF, which makes sense because these factors are doing exactly opposite things. Therefore, the amount you need to deposit today to earn $20,000 in one year at 5% interest is The Multiple-Period Scenario There will often be situations when you need to determine the present value of a cash flow that is scheduled to occur several years in the future (see Figure 7.17). We can again use the formula for present value to calculate a value today of future cash flows over multiple time periods. 214 7 • Time Value of Money I: Single Payment Value Access for free at openstax.org