10. Jackson's Moonshine LLC has a receivables collection period of 47 days. Which the following would be reasonable conclusions? a. Jackson's Moonshine LLC is most likely experiencing serious liquidity issues. b. Jackson's Moonshine LLC is most overinvested in marketable securities. c. If the industry average is 31 days, Jackson's management should attempt strategies that will lower their receivables collection period. d. If the industry average is 53 days, Jackson's management should attempt strategies that will raise their receivables collection period. 11. Two Way Power Ltd. (2WP) stocks an inventory item, BB3, that is projected to be in great demand over the next 12 months. In discussing its sales forecasts with its suppliers, a reasonable estimate shows that 2WP could lose about $30,000 of sales in month 3 due to inventory financing difficulties. Which, if any, of the following inventory costs would be affected by this development? a. purchase cost b. carrying costs c. ordering costs d. stockout costs e. none of these costs because loss of sales is not an inventory cost 12. If a company has significant inventory in each element of the value chain, it most likely is descriptive of ________. a. the cost of goods sold of a retailer b. the inventory balances held by wholesalers and service firms c. the materials, work in process, and finished goods of a manufacturer d. the inventory on the shelves of an e-commerce retailer Review Questions 1. Intelligent Cookies Inc. (ICI) sold $30,000,000 of product in a year that had a cost of goods sold of $10,000,000. The average inventory carried by ICI was $500,000. On average, it takes 35 days for ICI's customers, such as grocery stores and restaurants, to pay on their accounts. ICI buys ingredients, including flour, spices, and eggs, from its vendors on credit, and ICI takes about 40 days to pay its suppliers. How many days is ICI's cash conversion cycle? 2. Shown below are account balances for Electra Engines Inc., a manufacturer. The accounts are shown in a random order. What is the amount of net working capital? 594 19 • Review Questions Access for free at openstax.org