Figure 19.5 Note from Target Corporation 2021 10-K Filing (source: US Securities and Exchange Commission/EDGAR) In that note, which is a supplement to the company's balance sheet, receivables from third-party financial institutions is also considered a cash equivalent. That is because purchases by Target's customers who use their credit cards (e.g., VISA or MasterCard) create very short-term receivables-amounts that Target is waiting to collect but are very close to a cash sale. So instead of being reported as accounts receivable-a line item on the Target balance sheet that is separate from cash and cash equivalents-these amounts receivable from third-party financial institutions are considered part of the cash and cash equivalents and are a very liquid asst. For example, the amount of $560,000,000 for January 30, 2021, is considered a cash equivalent since the settlement of these accounts will happen in a day or two with cash deposited in Target's bank accounts. When a retailer sells product and accepts a credit card such as VISA, MasterCard, or American Express, the cash collection happens very soon after the credit card sale-typically within 24 to 72 hours.3 Companies also invest excess funds in marketable securities. These are debt and equity investments such as corporate and government bonds, preferred stock, and common stock of other entities that can be readily sold on a stock or bond exchange. Ford Motor Company has this definition of marketable securities in its 2019 Annual Report (Form 10-K): "Investments in securities with a maturity date greater than three months at the date of purchase and other securities for which there is more than an insignificant risk of change in value due to interest rate, quoted price, or penalty on withdrawal are classified as Marketable securities."4 19.4 Receivables Management By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Discuss how decisions on extending credit are made. • Explain how to monitor accounts receivables. For any business that sells goods or services on credit, effective accounts receivable management is critical for cash flow and profitability planning and for the long-term viability of the company. Receivables management begins before the sale is made when a number of factors must be considered. • Can the customer be approved for a credit sale? 3 Creditcardprocessing.com. "How Long Does it Take for a Merchant to Receive Funds?" n.d. https://www.creditcardprocessing.com/resource/article/long-take-merchant-receive- funds/#:~:text=The%20time%20that%20it%20takes,days%20to%20process%20the%20payment 4 Ford Motor Company. "2019 Annual Report." n.d. https://s23.q4cdn.com/725981074/files/doc_downloads/Ford-2019-Printed- Annual-Report.pdf 19.4 • Receivables Management 579