company. Preferred shareholders will require a higher rate of return than debt holders, 9.17%, because they are later in the order of claimants. Common shareholders are the residual claimants, standing at the end of the line to receive payment. After all other claimants are paid, any remaining money belongs to the shareholders. If this residual amount is small, the common shareholders receive a small payment. If there is nothing left after all other claimants have been paid, common shareholders receive nothing. Thus, common shareholders have the greatest amount of risk and require the highest rate of return. Also, note that the weights for debt, preferred stock, and common stock in the capital structure sum to 100%. The company must finance 100% of its assets. Issuing New Common Stock An existing firm can acquire equity capital to expand its assets in two ways: the retention of earnings or the sale of new shares of stock. Thus far in the chapter, the cost of equity capital calculations have assumed that the earnings were being retained for equity capital financing. The net income that is left after all expenses are paid is the residual income that belongs to the shareholders. Instead of receiving a fixed payment for letting the firm use their capital (like bondholders who receive fixed interest payments), the reward to shareholders for letting the company use their capital varies from year to year. In a good year, net income and the reward to shareholders is high. In a poor year, net income is low or perhaps even negative. The net income can either be paid immediately and directly to shareholders in the form of dividends or be retained within the company to fund growth. Shareholders are willing to allow the company to retain these earnings because they expect that the money will be used to fund profitable projects, leading to an even larger reward for shareholders in future years. Although managers do not need to actively solicit the funds that are retained to fund the business, managers cannot view these funds as costless. The shareholders will require a return on those funds to entice them to allow the company to delay paying the dollars to them immediately in terms of a dividend. Suppose a company has $1 million in net income one year. If it pays $250,000 in dividends and retains $750,000, then it can finance $750,000 more in assets. If the company has a capital structure of 25% debt and 75% equity and wants to maintain that capital structure, it must increase its debt by $250,000 to balance the increase in equity. Thus, the company would be increasing its total financing by $1 million. Of that financing, 25% would be debt financing, and 75% would be equity financing. To increase its assets by more than $1 million, the company would need to decide to either change its capital structure or issue new stock. Consider the firm represented by the market-value balance sheet in Figure 17.5. The firm has $900 million in assets. These assets are financed by $225 million in debt capital and $675 million in equity capital, resulting in a capital structure of 25% debt and 75% equity. Figure 17.5 Market-Value Balance Sheet for a Company with $900 Million in Assets and a Capital Structure of 25% Debt and 75% Equity The retained earnings of $750,000 cause the equity on the balance sheet to increase to $675.75 million. The 17.6 • Alternative Sources of Funds 525