• cash management; • credit and receivables management; • inventory management; and • accounts payable management. Components of Working Capital Management In contrast to net working capital, gross working capital is synonymous with current assets, particularly those current assets that are either cash or cash equivalents or that will be converted to cash within a short period of time (i.e., in less than one year). Below is a list of the components of gross working capital. • Cash and cash equivalents • Marketable securities • Accounts receivable • Inventory Here is an example. On December 31, a company has the following balances and gross working capital: Think of the $1,105,000 of gross working capital as a source of funds for the most pressing obligations (i.e., current liabilities) of the company. Gross working capital is available to pay the bills. However, some of the current assets would need to be converted to cash first. Accounts receivable need to be collected, and inventory would need to be sold before it too can become cash. What if the company had $600,000 of current liabilities? That amount of current obligations could not be paid out of cash until the marketable securities were sold and a significant portion of accounts receivable were collected. The second, more refined and useful concept of working capital is net working capital: For example, if a company has $1,000,000 of current assets and $750,000 of current liabilities, its net working capital would be $250,000 ($1,000,000 less $750,000). NWC provides a better picture because it takes into account the liability "coverage" provided by the current assets. As the above example shows, the current assets would "cover" the current liabilities with an excess of $250,000. Think of it this way: if the current assets could be converted to cash, they could be used to meet the current obligations with another $250,000 of cash leftover. Current liabilities include • accounts payable; • dividends payable; • notes payable (due within a year); • current portion of deferred revenue; • current maturities of long-term debt; • interest payable; • income taxes payable; and • accrued expenses such as compensation owed to employees. Net working capital possibilities can be thought of as a spectrum from negative working capital to positive, as 19.1 • What Is Working Capital? 567