common reasons are • to use stocks as instruments or repositories for maintaining value; • to accumulate wealth over the term of the stock investment; and • to earn income through capital gains and dividend payments. As with any financial instrument, common stock purchases offer advantages and disadvantages to investors. Important advantages include the following: • Returns through dividends and price appreciation of shares can be substantial. • Stocks are a liquid form of investment and can be bought or sold within secondary markets relatively easily. • Information about companies, markets, and important trends are widely published and readily available to the investing public. These advantages are significant and lead many individuals to move into stock investments. Yet it is important to realize that stock has some significant disadvantages, which can include the following: • General risk levels are greater than with bonds or other fixed-income investments. • Timing the buy-and-sell transactions of stock can be tricky and may lead to losses or not taking full advantage of share price opportunities. • Dividends (provided that the stock does indeed pay them, as not all do) are uncertain and subject to change based on decisions of company management. We will discuss these topics in this chapter and cover many of the details regarding why corporations issue common stock and why investors purchase that stock. 11.1 Multiple Approaches to Stock Valuation Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Define and calculate a P/E (price-to-earnings) ratio given company data. • Determine relative under- or overvaluation indicated by a P/E (price-to-earnings) ratio. • Define and calculate a P/B (price-to-book) ratio given company data. • Determine relative under- or overvaluation indicated by a P/B (price-to-book) ratio. • Define and detail alternative valuation multipliers, including P/S (price-to-sales) ratio, P/CF (price-to-cash- flow) ratio, and dividend yield. The Price-to Earnings (P/E) Ratio Experienced investors use a number of different methods to evaluate information on companies and their common stock before deciding on any potential purchase. One of the most popular techniques used by investors and analysts is to study a company's financial statements in order to uncover basic fundamental information on the company. This involves calculating a number of financial ratios that help identify trends, bringing elements of operational performance to light and allowing for clearer analysis and evaluation. A well-proven analytical approach for investors to use in evaluating common stock is to review the overall market value of the company that issues a stock. One of the most consistently used calculations in this analysis, which has important applications in company and common stock evaluation, is the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio. The P/E ratio is computed using the following formula: 320 11 • Stocks and Stock Valuation Access for free at openstax.org