quarantine still wanting to make healthy lifestyle choices, sporting goods stores were making record sales. Record-breaking sales, however, are not certain in the future. The impacts of the pandemic are extremely difficult to predict, making it a challenge for Big 5 Sporting Goods and other companies to assemble pro forma financial statements. (sources: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2020/10/27/2115470/0/en/Big-5-Sporting-Goods- Corporation-Announces-Record-Fiscal-2020-Third-Quarter-Results.html; https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ investors-want-big-5-sporting-054658521.html; https://www.cpapracticeadvisor.com/accounting-audit/ news/21206691/four-ways-covid19-will-impact-2021-financial-forecasting-and-planning) Determine Potential Changes in Variables So far, we have focused on using historical common-size statements to create a draft (not a final version) of the forecast. This is because the past isn't always a perfect indicator of the future, and our finances don't always follow a linear pattern. We use the past as a good starting point; then, we must assess what else we know to fine-tune and make adjustments to the forecast. Many items impact the forecast, and they will vary from one organization to another. The key is to do research, gather data, and look around at the market, the economy, the competition, and any other factors that have the potential to impact the future sales, costs, and financial health of the company. Though certainly not an exhaustive list, here are a few examples of items that may impact Clear Lake Sporting Goods. • It has an old product line that was discontinued in early October, contributing to a 2% reduction in monthly sales that will likely continue into the new year until a new line begins arriving in stores. • It will be adding a new brand to its collection of fishing supplies in March. The manufacturer plans to begin running commercials in late February. Managers anticipate that this will increase Clear Lake's monthly sales by about $500 in March, $1,000 in April, $1,400 in May, and $2,000 per month in June, July, and August. • The company has just finished updating its employee compensation package. It goes into effect in January of the new year and will result in an overall 4% increase in the cost of labor. • The landlord indicated that rent will increase by $50 per month starting July 1. • Some fixed assets will be fully depreciated by the end of March. Thus, depreciation expense will go down by $25 per month beginning in April. • There are rumors of new regulations that will impact the costs of importing some of the more difficult-to- obtain hunting supplies. Managers aren't entirely sure of the full impact of the new legislation at this time, but they anticipate that it could increase cost of goods sold for the affected product line when the new legislation goes into effect in the last quarter. Their best estimate is that it could increase the overall cost of goods sold by up to 2%. We will use all of this data later in the chapter when we are ready to compile a complete forecast for Clear Lake. 18.4 Generating the Complete Forecast Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Generate a forecasted income statement that incorporates pertinent sales, functional, and policy variables. • Generate a forecasted balance sheet. • Connect the balance sheet and income statement forecasts with appropriate feedback linkages. In this section of the chapter, we will tie together what we have learned so far about forecasting sales, 546 18 • Financial Forecasting Access for free at openstax.org