Length of a Forecast Forecasts can generally be for any length of time. The length generally depends on the user's needs. A one- year forecast, broken down by month, is quite typical. A firm will often go through a formal budgeting process near the end of its calendar or fiscal year to project financial plans and goals for the coming year. Once that is done, a rolling financial forecast is then done monthly to adjust as time moves on, more information becomes available, and circumstances change. To be useful, the future forecast for financial planning purposes is almost always calculated as monthly increments rather than one total figure for the next 12 months. Breaking the data down by month allows finance managers to more clearly see fluctuations in cash flows in and out, identify potential gaps in cash flow, and plan ahead for their cash needs. Forecasts can also be done for several years into the future. In fact, they commonly are. However, once the firm is looking out beyond 12 months, it gets difficult to forecast items with a great degree of accuracy. Often, forecasts beyond a year will be completed only to quarterly or even annual figures rather than monthly. Forecasts that far into the future are often strategic in nature, made more to communicate future plans for the firm than for more detailed decision-making and cash flow planning. Common-Size Financials As we saw earlier in the chapter, common-size analysis involves using historical financial statements as a basis for future forecasts. Financial statements provide a great starting point for analysis, as we can see the relationships between sales and costs on the income statement and the relationships between total assets and line items on the balance sheet. For example, in Figure 18.6, we saw that for the past two years, cost of goods sold has been 50% of sales. Thus, in the first draft of a forecast for Clear Lake, it's likely that managers would estimate cost of goods sold at 50% of their forecasted sales. We can begin to see why forecasting sales first is crucial and why doing so as accurately as possible is also important. Select Variables to Use A simple way to begin a full financial statement forecast might be to simply use the common-size statements and forecast every item using historical percentages. It's a logical way to begin a very rough draft of the forecast. However, several variables should be taken into consideration. First, managers must address the cost of an account and determine if it's a variable or fixed item. Variable costs tend to vary directly and proportionally with production or sales volume. Common examples include direct labor and direct materials. Fixed costs, on the other hand, do not change when production or sales volume increases or decreases within the relevant range. Granted, if production were to increase or decrease by a large amount, fixed costs would indeed change. However, in normal month-to-month changes, fixed costs often remain the same. Common examples of fixed costs include rent and managerial salaries. So, if we were to approach our common-size income statement, for example, we would likely use the percentage of sales as a starting point to forecast variable items such as cost of goods sold. However, fixed costs may not be accurately forecast as a percentage of sales because they won't actually change with sales. Thus, we would likely look at the history of the dollar values of fixed costs in order to forecast them. CONCEPTS IN PRACTICE COVID-19 Makes Forecasting Difficult for Big 5 Sporting Goods Big 5 Sporting Goods announced record earnings in the third quarter of 2020, attributing its huge success that quarter to the impact of people's reactions to the COVID-19 pandemic. With so many people in 18.3 • Pro Forma Financials 545