Finally, income tax expense is forecasted as a percentage of operating income because tax liability is incurred as a direct result of operating income. Figure 18.13 shows the next 12 months' forecast for Clear Lake Sporting Goods using all of this data. Figure 18.13 Forecasted Income Statement Forecast the Balance Sheet Now that we have a reasonable income statement forecast, we can move on to the balance sheet. The balance sheet, however, is entirely different from the income statement. It requires a bit more research and additional assumptions. Just like the income statement, it's often a work in progress. A first draft is a good starting point, but adjustments must be made once it is created, and all the interrelationships between the statements, cash flow in particular, are taken into consideration. The balance sheet is a bit more difficult to forecast because the statement reflects balances at just a given point in time. Account balances change daily, so forecasting just one snapshot in time for each month can be a challenge. A good starting point is to assess general company financial policies or rules of thumb. For example, assume that Clear Lake pays most of its vendors on net 30-day terms. A good way to forecast accounts payable on the balance sheet might be to add up the cost of goods sold from the forecasted income statement for the prior month. For example, in Figure 18.14, we see that Clear Lake has forecasted its accounts payable for March as the cost of goods sold in March from its forecasted income statement. For accounts receivable, Clear Lake generally receives payment from customers within net 90-day terms. Thus, it uses the sum of the current and prior two months' forecasted sales to estimate its accounts receivable balance. Inventory will vary throughout the year. For the first six months, the company tries to build inventory for four months of sales. Once the busy season hits, inventory goes down to three months' worth of future sales, then finally drops to only two months of sales in December. Thus, managers use their sales forecast by month to estimate their inventory ending balance each month. The equipment balance is forecasted by reducing the prior month's balance by the forecasted depreciation expense on the forecasted income statement. Unearned revenue is historically around 50% of the current month's sales. Thus, Clear Lake estimates its unearned revenue balance each month by taking the current month's net sales from the forecasted income statement and multiplying it by 50%. Short-term investments, notes payable, and common stock are not anticipated to change, so the current balance is forecasted to remain the same for the next 12 months. 548 18 • Financial Forecasting Access for free at openstax.org