To calculate the arithmetic mean of the amount paid for Treasury bills at auction, in billions of dollars, we use the following formula: Median To determine the median of a data set, order the data from smallest to largest, and then find the middle value in the ordered data set. For example, to find the median value of 50 portfolios, find the number that splits the data into two equal parts. The portfolio values owned by 25 people will be below the median, and 25 people will have portfolio values above the median. The median is generally a better measure of the average when there are extreme values or outliers in the data set. An outlier or extreme value is a data value that is significantly different from the other data values in a data set. The median is preferred when outliers are present because the median is not affected by the numerical values of the outliers. The ordered data set from Table 13.1 appears as follows: The middle value in this ordered data set is the third data value, which is 39.7. Thus, the median is $39.7 billion. You can quickly find the location of the median by using the expression . The variable n represents the total number of data values in the sample. If n is an odd number, the median is the middle value of the data values when ordered from smallest to largest. If n is an even number, the median is equal to the two middle values of the ordered data values added together and divided by 2. In the example from Table 13.1, there are five data values, so n = 5. To identify the position of the median, calculate , which is , or 3. This indicates that the median is located in the third data position, which corresponds to the value 39.7. As mentioned earlier, when outliers are present in a data set, the mean can be nonrepresentative of the center of the data set, and the median will provide a better measure of center. The following Think It Through example illustrates this point. THINK IT THROUGH Finding the Measure of Center Suppose that in a small village of 50 people, one person earns a salary of $5 million per year, and the other 49 individuals each earn $30,000. Which is the better measure of center: the mean or the median? Solution: The mean, in dollars, would be arrived at mathematically as follows: However, the median would be $30,000. There are 49 people who earn $30,000 and one person who earns $5,000,000. The median is a better measure of the "average" than the mean because 49 of the values are $30,000 and one is $5,000,000. The $5,000,000 is an outlier. The $30,000 gives us a better sense of the middle of the data set. 13.1 • Measures of Center 383