future dividend and then discount each individual dividend back to the present. All is not lost, however. Sometimes you can see patterns in the dividends. For example, a firm might shift into a dividend stream pattern that will allow you to use one of the dividend models to take a shortcut for pricing the stock. Let's look at an example. JM and Company is a small start-up firm that will institute a dividend payment-a $0.25 dividend-for the first time at the end of this year. The company expects rapid growth over the next four years and will increase its dividend to $0.50, then to $1.50, and then to $3.00 before settling into a constant growth dividend pattern with dividends growing at 5% every year (see Table 11.6). If you believe that JM and Company will deliver this dividend pattern and you desire a 13% return on your investment, what price should you pay for this stock? T0 T1 T2 T3 T4 T5 $0.25 $0.50 $1.50 $1.275 $3.00 Table 11.6 Solution: To price this stock, we will need to discount the first four dividends at 13% and then discount the constant growth portion of the dividends, the first payment of which will be received at the end of year 5. Let's calculate the first four dividends: We now turn to the constant growth dividend pattern, where we can use our infinite horizon constant growth model as follows: This figure is the price of the constant growth portion at the end of the fourth period, so we still need to discount it back to the present at the 13% required rate of return: So, the price of this stock with a nonconstant dividend pattern is Some Final Thoughts on Dividend Discount Models The dividend used to calculate a price is the expected future payout and expected future dividend growth. This means the DDM is most useful when valuing companies that have long, consistent dividend records. If the DDM formula is applied to a company with a limited dividend history, or in an industry exposed to significant risks that could affect a company's ability to maintain its payout, the resulting derived value may not be entirely accurate. In most cases, dividend models, whether constant growth or constant dividend, appeal to a fundamental concept of asset pricing: the future cash flow to which the owner is entitled while holding the asset and the required rate of return for that cash flow determine the value of a financial asset. However, problems can arise when using these models because the timing and amounts of future cash flows may be difficult to predict. 340 11 • Stocks and Stock Valuation Access for free at openstax.org