• can be used to determine whether a particular data value is close to or far from the mean. The standard deviation provides a measure of the overall variation in a data set. The standard deviation is always positive or zero. It is small when the data values are all concentrated close to the mean, exhibiting little variation or spread. It is larger when the data values are more spread out from the mean, exhibiting more variation. Suppose that we are studying the variability of two different stocks, Stock A and Stock B. The average stock price for both stocks is $5. For Stock A, the standard deviation of the stock price is 2, whereas the standard deviation for Stock B is 4. Because Stock B has a higher standard deviation, we know that there is more variation in the stock price for Stock B than in the price for Stock A. There are two different formulas for calculating standard deviation. Which formula to use depends on whether the data represents a sample or a population. The notation s is used to represent the sample standard deviation, and the notation is used to represent the population standard deviation. In the formulas shown below, x̄ is the sample mean, is the population mean, n is the sample size, and N is the population size. Formula for the sample standard deviation: Formula for the population standard deviation: Variance Variance also provides a measure of the spread of data values. The variance of a data set measures the extent to which each data value differs from the mean. The more the individual data values differ from the mean, the larger the variance. Both the standard deviation and the variance provide similar information. In a finance application, variance can be used to determine the volatility of an investment and therefore to help guide financial decisions. For example, a more cautious investor might opt for investments with low volatility. Similar to standard deviation, the formula used to calculate variance also depends on whether the data is collected from a sample or a population. The notation is used to represent the sample variance, and the notation σ2 is used to represent the population variance. Formula for the sample variance: Formula for the population variance: This is the method to calculate standard deviation and variance for a sample: 1. First, find the mean of the data set by adding the data values and dividing the sum by the number of data values. 2. Set up a table with three columns, and in the first column, list the data values in the data set. 3. For each row, subtract the mean from the data value , and enter the difference in the second 386 13 • Statistical Analysis in Finance Access for free at openstax.org