narrowed, and the confidence interval became tighter around the expected value of the mean. It is also important to note that the intervals around a point estimate are highly dependent upon the range of data used to estimate the equation, regardless of which approach is being used for prediction. Remember that all regression equations go through the point of means-that is, the mean value of y and the mean values of all independent variables in the equation. As the value of x gets further and further from the (x, y) point corresponding to the mean value of x and the mean value of y, the width of the estimated interval around the point estimate increases. Choosing values of x beyond the range of the data used to estimate the equation poses an even greater danger of creating estimates with little use, very large intervals, and risk of error. Figure 14.12 shows this relationship. Figure 14.12 Confidence Interval for an Individual Value of x, , at 95% Confidence Level Figure 14.12 demonstrates the concern for the quality of the estimated interval, whether it is a prediction interval or a confidence interval. As the value chosen to predict y, in the graph, is further from the central weight of the data, , we see the interval expand in width even while holding constant the level of confidence. This shows that the precision of any estimate will diminish as one tries to predict beyond the largest weight of the data and most certainly will degrade rapidly for predictions beyond the range of the data. Unfortunately, this is just where most predictions are desired. They can be made, but the width of the confidence interval may be so large as to render the prediction useless. 14.6 Use of R Statistical Analysis Tool for Regression Analysis Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Generate correlation coefficients using the R statistical tool. • Generate linear regression models using the R statistical tool. Generate Correlation Coefficients Using the R Statistical Tool R is an open-source statistical analysis tool that is widely used in the finance industry. R is available as a free program and provides an integrated suite of functions for data analysis, graphing, and statistical programming. R provides many functions and capabilities for regression analysis. Recall that most calculations in R are handled via functions. The typical method for using functions in statistical applications is to first create a vector of data values. There are several ways to create vectors in R. For example, the c function is often used to combine values into a vector. For example, this R command will generate a vector called salaries, containing the data values 40,000, 50,000, 75,000, and 92,000: 438 14 • Regression Analysis in Finance Access for free at openstax.org