understand that the DDM is not without flaws and that using it requires assumptions to be made that, in the end, may not prove to be true. The Gordon Growth Model The most common DDM is the Gordon growth model, which uses the dividend for the next year (D1), the required return (r), and the estimated future dividend growth rate (g) to arrive at a final price or value of the stock. The formula for the Gordon growth model is as follows: This calculation values the stock entirely on expected future dividends. You can then compare the calculated price to the actual market price in order to determine whether purchasing the stock at market will meet your requirements. LINK TO LEARNING Dividend Discount Model Watch this short video on the dividend discount model (https://openstax.org/r/ short_video_on_the_dividend) and how it is used it in stock valuation and analysis. The Gordon growth model equation is presented and then applied to a sample problem to demonstrate how the DDM yields an estimated share price for the stock of any company. Now that we have been introduced to the basic idea behind the dividend discount model, we can move on to cover other forms of DDM. Zero Growth Dividend Discount Model The zero growth DDM assumes that all future dividends of a stock will be fixed at essentially the same dollar value forever, or at least for as long as an individual investor holds the shares of stock. In such a case, the stock's intrinsic value is determined by dividing the annual dividend amount by the required rate of return: When examined closely, it can be seen that this is the exact same formula that is used to calculate the present value of a perpetuity, which is For the purpose of using this formula in stock valuation, we can express this as where PV is equal to the price or value of the stock, D represents the dividend payment, and r represents the required rate of return. This makes perfect sense because a stock that pays the exact same dividend amount forever is no different from a perpetuity-a continuous, never-ending annuity-and for this reason, the same formula can be used to price preferred stock. The only factor that might alter the value of a stock based on the zero-growth model would be a change in the required rate of return due to fluctuations in perceived risk levels. 326 11 • Stocks and Stock Valuation Access for free at openstax.org