Figure 7.17 Determining Future Cash Flow An example of this would be if you wanted to buy a savings bond for Charlotte, the daughter of a close friend. The face value of the savings bond you have in mind is $1,000, which is the amount Charlotte would receive in 30 years (the future value). If the government is currently paying 5% per year on savings bonds, how much will it cost you today to buy this savings bond? The $1,000 face value of the bond is the future value, and the number of years n that Charlotte must wait to get this face value is 30 years. The interest rate r is 5.0% and is the discount rate for the savings bond. Applying the present value equation, we calculate the current price of this savings bond as follows: So, it would cost you $231.38 to purchase this 30-year, 5%, $1,000 face-valued bond. What we have done in the above example is reduce, or discount, the future value of the bond to arrive at a value expressed in today's dollars. Effectively, this discounting process is the exact opposite of compounding interest that we covered earlier in our discussion of future value. An important concept to remember is that compounding is the process that takes a present valuation of money to some point in the future, while discounting takes a future value of money and equates it to present dollar value terms. Common applications in which you might use the present value formula include determining how much money you would need to invest in an interest-bearing account today in order to finance a college education for your oldest child and how much you would need to invest today to meet your retirement plans 30 years from now. TVM, Inflation, Compounding Interest, Investing, Opportunity Costs, and Risk The time value of money (TVM) is a critical concept in understanding the value of money relative to the amount of time it is held, saved, or invested. The TVM concept and its specific applications are frequently used by individuals and organizations that might wish to better understand the values of financial assets and to improve investing and saving strategies, whether these are personal or within business environments. As we have discussed, the key element behind the concept of TVM is that a given amount of money is worth more today than that same amount of money will be at any point in the future. Again, this is because money can be saved or invested in interest-bearing accounts or investments that will generate interest income over time, thus resulting in increased savings and dollar values as time passes. Inflation The entire concept of TVM exists largely due to the presence of inflation. Inflation is defined as a general increase in the prices of goods and services and/or a drop in the value of money and its purchasing power. The purchasing power of the consumer dollar is a statistic tracked by the part of the US Bureau of Labor 7.4 • Applications of TVM in Finance 215