How Trade Credit Works Trade credit is common in B2B (business to business) transactions and is analogous to consumer spending using a credit card. With a credit card, a consumer opens an account with a credit limit. Most trade credit is offered to a company with an open account that has a credit limit up to which the company can purchase goods or services without having to pay the cash up front. As long as the payments are made in accordance with the terms of the agreement (also called credit terms), no interest or additional fees are charged on the credit balance except possibly for a fee for late payment. Initially, the vendor's credit department approves both a trade credit limit and credit payment terms (i.e., number of days after the invoice date that payment is due). Timely payments on accounts payable (trade credit) helps create a credit history for the purchasing firm. Trade Credit Terms Trade credit arrangements often carry credit terms that offer an incentive, called a discount, for a company (the buyer) to pay its bill within a relatively short period of time. Net terms, also referred to as the full credit period, are the number of days that a business (purchaser) has before they must pay their invoice. A common net term is Net 30, with payment due in full within 30 days of the invoice. Many vendors also offer cash discounts to customers that pay their bill early. A company's invoice that specifies payment terms of "2/10 n/30" (stated as: "two ten net 30") would allow a 2 percent discount if the buyer's account balance is paid within 10 days of the invoice date; otherwise, the net amount owed would be due in 30 days. The "10 days" in the example is the discount period-the number of days the buyer has to take advantage of the cash discount for an early payment, also known as quick payment. For example, Jackson's Premium Jams Inc. received a $10,500 invoice for the purchase of jelly jars. The invoice has payment terms of 2/10 n/30. Jackson's pays the bill within 10 days of the invoice date. Jackson's payment would be . The effect of taking a discount because of a quick payment is a lowering of the cost of inventory in the case of purchases of materials (for a manufacturer), merchandise (for a retailer or wholesaler), and operating expenses (for any company that "buys" services using trade credit). In Cost of Trade Credit, there is an example that shows the high annualize opportunity cost (36.73 percent) of not taking advantage of cash discounts. CONCEPTS IN PRACTICE Trade Credit of International Trade When international trade occurs, two important documents are commonly required: a letter of credit and a bill of lading. A letter of credit is issued by a financial institution on behalf of the foreign buyer (importer). The bill of lading is a legal document that gives proof of a contract between a transportation company and the buyer and is one important piece of documentation that allows the buyer to draw on the letter of credit. A bill of lading serves as a document of title and proof of receipt of goods by the shipper. The letter of credit secures a promise of payment to the seller (exporter) provided that the terms of the sale are met. For an international trade transaction, the letter of credit is the main mechanism that establishes a liability for the buyer. Instead of a trade payable, the buyer uses a line of credit from a bank. Cost of Trade Credit Trade credit is often referred to as a no-cost type of financing. Unlike with other credit arrangements (e.g., bank loans, lines of credit, and commercial paper), there is usually no interest expense associated with trade credit, and as long as your account does not become delinquent, there are no special fees. Some accounts payable arrangements specify an interest penalty or a late fee when the account goes delinquent, but as long 576 19 • The Importance of Trade Credit and Working Capital in Planning Access for free at openstax.org