analyzing the relationship between one dependent variable and one independent variable, where the relationship can be modeled using a linear equation. This type of analysis is called linear regression. 14.1 Correlation Analysis Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Calculate a correlation coefficient. • Interpret a correlation coefficient. • Test for the significance of a correlation coefficient. Calculate a Correlation Coefficient In correlation analysis, we study the relationship between bivariate data, which is data collected on two variables where the data values are paired with one another. Correlation is the measure of association between two numeric variables. For example, we may be interested to know if there is a correlation between bond prices and interest rates or between the age of a car and the value of the car. To investigate the correlation between two numeric quantities, the first step is to create a scatter plot that will graph the (x, y) ordered pairs. The independent, or explanatory, quantity is labeled as the x-variable, and the dependent, or response, quantity is labeled as the y-variable. For example, we may be interested to know if the price of Nike stock is correlated with the value of the S&P 500 (Standard & Poor's 500 stock market index). To investigate this, monthly data can be collected for Nike stock prices and value of the S&P 500 for a period of time, and a scatter plot can be created and examined. A scatter plot, or scatter diagram, is a graphical display intended to show the relationship between two variables. The setup of the scatter plot is that one variable is plotted on the horizontal axis and the other variable is plotted on the vertical axis. Each pair of data values is considered as an (x, y) point, and the various points are plotted on the diagram. A visual inspection of the plot is then made to detect any patterns or trends on the scatter diagram. Table 14.1 shows the relationship between the Nike stock price and its S&P value over a one-year time period. To assess linear correlation, the graphical trend of the data points is examined on the scatter plot to determine if a straight-line pattern exists. If a linear pattern exists, the correlation may indicate either a positive or a negative correlation. A positive correlation indicates that as the independent variable increases, the dependent variable tends to increase as well, or, as the independent variable decreases, the dependent variable tends to decrease (the two quantities move in the same direction). A negative correlation indicates that as the independent variable increases, the dependent variable decreases, or, as the independent variable decreases, the dependent variable increases (the two quantities move in opposite directions). If there is no relationship or association between the two quantities, where one quantity changing does not affect the other quantity, we conclude that there is no correlation between the two variables. Date S&P 500 Nike Stock Price 4/1/2020 2,912.43 87.18 5/1/2020 3,044.31 98.58 6/1/2020 3,100.29 98.05 Table 14.1 Nike Stock Price ($) and Value of S&P 500 over a One-Year Time Period (source: Yahoo! Finance) 418 14 • Regression Analysis in Finance Access for free at openstax.org