with the initial deposit. This will have the effect of accelerating the growth of the total dollar value of the account. This is the important effect of the compounding of interest: money grows in larger and larger increments the longer you leave it in an interest-bearing account. In effect, the compounding of interest over time accelerates the growth of money. In order to determine the FV of any amount of money, it will always be necessary to know the following pieces of information: (1) the principal, initial deposit, or present value (PV); (2) the rate of interest, usually expressed on an annual basis as r; and (3) the number of time periods that the money will remain in the account (n). The interest rate is often referred to as the growth rate, or the annual percentage increase on savings or on an investment. When the rate is raised to the power of the number of periods, the formula will yield a number that is commonly referred to as the future value interest factor (FVIF). As a result of this process, as n (time, or the number of periods) increases, the future value interest factor will increase. Also, as r (interest rate) increases, the FVIF will increases. For these reasons, the future value calculation is directly determined by both the interest rate being used and the total amount of time-specifically, the number of periods-being considered. THINK IT THROUGH Calculating Future Values Here's another example of calculating future values in multiple-period scenarios. On a recent drive, you spotted your dream home, which is currently listed at $400,000. Unfortunately, you are not in a position to buy it right away and will have to wait at least another six years before you can afford it. If house values are appreciating at an annual rate of inflation of 4%, how much will a similar house cost after six years? Solution: In this case, PV is the current cost of the house, or $400,000; n is six years; r is the average annual inflation rate, or 4%; and we have to solve for FV. Therefore, under these circumstances, the house will cost $506,127.60 after six years. How Time Impacts Compounding We have just seen that time will lead to the growth of our money. As long as the prevailing growth or interest rate of any account we have our money in is positive, the passage of time will have the effect of growing the value of our money. The longer the period of time, the greater the growth and the larger the future value of the money will be. This can be reinforced very clearly with the following example. Melvin is saving money in an account at a local bank that earns 5% per year. He begins with a deposit in his account of $100 and decides to save his money for exactly one year. He will not be making any further deposits into the account during the year. Melvin will earn or $5, in interest income. Adding this to the original deposit balance of $100 will give him a total of or $105, in the account at the end of one year. Melvin likes this idea and believes he may be able to keep his money in the account for a longer period of time. How much money will he have in his account, without any further deposits, at the end of years two, three, four, and five? 7.2 • Time Value of Money (TVM) Basics 195