repeated four times. This method can become tedious when the length of the longer project is not a multiple of the shorter project. For example, when choosing between a five-year project and a seven-year project, the short one would have to be duplicated seven times and the long project would have to be repeated five times to get to a common length of 35 years for the two projects. Equal Annuity Approach The equal annuity approach assumes that both the short-term and the long-term projects can be repeated forever. This approach involves the following steps: Step 1: Find the NPV of each of the projects. • The NPV of the larger, older ice-cream truck is $49,474. • The NPV of the smaller, newer ice-cream truck is $80,658. Step 2: Find the annuity that has the same present value as the NPV and the same number of periods as the project. • For the larger, older ice-cream truck, we want to find the three-year annuity that would have a present value of $49,474 when using a 10% discount rate. This is $19,894. • For the smaller, newer ice-cream truck, we want to find the six-year annuity that would have a present value of $80,658 when using a 10% discount rate. This is $18,520. Step 3: Assume that these projects, or similar projects, can be repeated over and over and that these annuities will continue forever. Calculate the present value of these annuities continuing forever using the perpetuity formula. We again find that the older, larger truck is preferred to the newer, smaller truck. These methods correct for unequal lives, but managers need to be aware that some unavoidable issues come up when these adjustments are made. Both the replacement chain and equal annuity approaches assume that projects can be replicated with identical projects in the future. It is important to note that this is not always a reasonable assumption; these replacement projects may not exist. Estimating cash flows from potential projects is prone to errors, as we will discuss in Financial Forecasting these errors are compounded and become more significant as projects are expected to be repeated. Inflation and changing market conditions are likely to result in cash flows varying in the future from our predictions, and as we go further into the future, these changes are potentially greater. Choosing Projects When Resources Are Limited Choosing positive NPV projects adds value to a company. Although we often assume that the company will choose to pursue all positive NPV projects, in reality, managers often face a budget that restricts the amount of capital that they may invest in a given time period. Thus, managers are forced to choose among several positive NPV projects. The goal is to maximize the total NPV of the firm's projects while remaining within budget constraints. LINK TO LEARNING Profitability Index Managers should reject any project with a negative NPV. When managers find themselves with an array of projects with a positive NPV, the profitability index can be used to choose among those projects. To learn 16.5 • Choosing between Projects 493