Even though we anticipate that companies will be in business "forever," we are not going to own a company's stock forever. Therefore, the dividend stream to which we would have legal claim is only for that period of the company's life during which we own the stock. We need to modify the dividend model to account for a finite period when we will sell the stock at some future time. This modification brings us from an infinite to a finite dividend pricing model, which we will use to price a finite amount of dividends and the future selling price of the stock. We will maintain a constant dividend assumption. Let's assume we will hold a share in a company that pays a $1 dividend for 20 years and then sell the stock. Method 1: Using an Equation The dividend pricing model under a finite horizon is a concept we have seen earlier. It is a simple present value annuity stream application: We now need to determine the selling price that we would get in 20 years if we were to sell the stock to someone else at that time. What would a willing buyer give us for the stock 20 years from now? This price is difficult to estimate, so for the sake of this exercise, we will assume that the price in 20 years will be $30. So, what is the present value of the price in 20 years with a 10% discount rate? Again, this is just a simple application of the PV formula we covered earlier in the text: We can now price the stock as if it were a bond with a dividend stream of 20 years, a sales price in 20 years, and a required return of 10%: • The dividend stream is analogous to the coupon payments. • The sales price is analogous to the bond's principal. • The 20-year investment horizon is analogous to the bond's maturity date. • The required return is analogous to the bond's yield. Carrying on with the PV calculations, we have Method 2: Using a Financial Calculator We can also use a calculator or spreadsheet to find the price of the stock using constant dividends (see Table 11.3). Step Description Enter Display 1 Clear calculator register CE/C CE/C 0.00 Table 11.3 Calculator Steps for Finding the Price of Stock Using Constant Dividends 11.2 • Dividend Discount Models (DDMs) 335