• Alternate hypothesis : The population correlation coefficient is significantly different from zero. There is a significant linear relationship (correlation) between x and y in the population. A quick shorthand way to test correlations is the relationship between the sample size and the correlation. If then this implies that the correlation between the two variables demonstrates that a linear relationship exists and is statistically significant at approximately the 0.05 level of significance. As the formula indicates, there is an inverse relationship between the sample size and the required correlation for significance of a linear relationship. With only 10 observations, the required correlation for significance is 0.6325; for 30 observations, the required correlation for significance decreases to 0.3651; and at 100 observations, the required level is only 0.2000. NOTE: • If r is significant and the scatter plot shows a linear trend, the line can be used to predict the value of y for values of x that are within the domain of observed x-values. • If r is not significant OR if the scatter plot does not show a linear trend, the line should not be used for prediction. • If r is significant and the scatter plot shows a linear trend, the line may not be appropriate or reliable for prediction outside the domain of observed x-values in the data. THINK IT THROUGH Determining If a Correlation Is Significant Suppose that the chief financial officer (CFO) of a corporation is investigating the correlation between stock prices and unemployment rate over a period of 10 years and finds the correlation coefficient to be -0.68. There are 10 (x, y) data points in the data set. Should the CFO conclude that the correlation is significant for the relationship between stock prices and unemployment rate based on a level of significance of 0.05? Solution: When using a level of significance of 0.05, if then this implies that the correlation between the two variables demonstrates a linear relationship that is statistically significant at approximately the 0.05 level of significance. In this example, we check if is greater than or equal to where . Since is approximately 0.632, this indicates that the absolute value of r of is greater than , and thus the correlation is deemed as significant. Correlations may be helpful in visualizing the data, but they are not appropriately used to explain a relationship between two variables. Perhaps no single statistic is more misused than the correlation coefficient. Citing correlations between health conditions and everything from place of residence to eye color have the effect of implying a cause-and-effect relationship. This simply cannot be accomplished with a correlation coefficient. The correlation coefficient is, of course, innocent of this misinterpretation. It is the duty of analysts to use a statistic that is designed to test for cause-and-effect relationships and to report only those results, if they are intending to make such a claim. The problem is that passing this more rigorous test is difficult, therefore lazy and/or unscrupulous researchers fall back on correlations when they cannot make their case legitimately. 14.1 • Correlation Analysis 423