Let's take the example above and review it from a different angle. Keeping in mind that we have not yet explored the use of Excel, is there another way to view our solution? The problem above takes each annual investment and compounds it into the future, then adds the results of each calculation to find the total future value of the stream of payments. But when you break the problem down, another way to look at the problem is as a five-year annuity of $10,000 per year plus added payments in years 4 and 5. Can we solve for the future value of an annuity first and then perform two separate calculations on the additional amounts ($5,000 each in years 4 and 5)? Yes, we can. Let's summarize: • Future value of a $10,000 annuity due, 4%, 5 years, plus • Future value of a single payment of $5,000, 4%, 2 years, plus • Future value of a single payment of $5,000, 4%, 1 year This must give us the same result. The formula for the future value of an annuity due is This problem can be solved in the three steps of the summary above. Step 1: Step 2: Step 3: Combining the results from each of the three steps gives us It works. Whether you view this problem as five separate periods that can be compounded separately and then combined or as a combination of one or more annuities and/or single payment problems, we always arrive at the same solution if we are diligent about the time, the interest, and the stream of payments. The Present Value of a Mixed Stream Now that we've seen the calculation of a future value, consider a present value. We will begin with a personal example. You win a cash windfall through your state's lottery. You would like to take a portion of the funds and place them in a fixed investment so that you can draw $17,000 per year starting one year from now and continue to do so for the next two years. At the end of year 4, you want to withdraw $17,500, and at the end of year 5, you will withdraw the last $18,000 to close the account. When you take your last payment of $18,000, your fund will be totally depleted. You will always be earning 6% annually. How much of your cash windfall should you set aside today to accomplish this? Let us break down the problem, remembering that we are thinking in reverse from the earlier problems that involved future values. In this case, we're bringing future values back in time to find their present values. You will recall that this process is called discounting rather than compounding. Regardless of how we solve this, the question remains the same: How much money must we invest today (present value) to achieve this? And remember that we will always be earning 6% compounded annually on any invested balances. 9.1 • Timing of Cash Flows 267