Amazon.com Services LLC is set up as a subsidiary of the larger Amazon.com Inc. Take a look at the Amazon LLC company profile provided by Dun & Bradstreet (https://openstax.org/r/company-profiles-amazon). Why do you think such a large corporation is set up as an LLC? Incorporating a Business Many business owners decide to structure their business as a corporation. In order to begin the process of incorporation, an organization must file a business registration form with the US state in which it will be based and carry on its primary business activities. The document that must be used for this application is generally referred to as the articles of incorporation or a corporate charter. Articles of incorporation are the single most important governing documents of a corporation. The registration allows the state to collect taxes and ensure that the business is complying with all applicable state laws. The exact form of the articles of incorporation differs depending on the type of corporation. Some types of articles of incorporation include the following: • Domestic corporation (in state) • Foreign corporation (out of state or out of country) • Close (closely held) corporation • Professional corporation • Nonprofit corporation (several different types of nonprofits) • Stock corporation • Non-stock corporation • Public benefit corporation It is important to note that articles of incorporation are only required to establish a regular corporation. Limited liability corporations require what are referred to as articles of organization (or similar documents) to register their business with a state. Some types of limited partnerships must also register with their state. However, sole proprietorships do not have to register; for this reason, they are often the preferred organizational structure for a person who is just starting out in business, at least initially. Articles of incorporation provide the basic information needed to legally form the company and register the business in its state. The state will need to know the name of the business, its purpose, and the people who will be in charge of running it (the board of directors). The state also needs to know about any stock that the business will be selling to the public. The websites of various secretaries of state will have information on the different types of articles of incorporation, the requirements, and the filing process. 2.2 Relationship between Shareholders and Company Management Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain the difference between principals and agents. • List and discuss various stakeholders associated with a company and its operations. • Explain how management impacts the operations and future of a company. Stakeholders A stakeholder is any person or group that has an interest in the outcomes of an organization's actions. Stakeholders include employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, communities, and governments. Different stakeholders have different priorities, and companies often have to make compromises to please as many stakeholders as possible. 44 2 • Corporate Structure and Governance Access for free at openstax.org