Limited Liability Corporation Limited Liability Partnership Advantages Disadvantages Advantages Disadvantages Fewer restrictions on eligibility (only one member allowed; can be professional, although some states disallow professionals) Only certain professions eligible Usually more personal liability protection Limited protection from partners' actions Personal protection as well as protection from negligence of other partners Flexibility in taxation Earnings included in members' personal taxes Earnings taxed just once Must file taxes as pass- through entity Table 2.1 Advantages and Disadvantages of LLCs and LLPs LLCs and LLPs have gained great popularity in recent years, but larger companies still find substantial advantages in being structured as C corporations. This is primarily due to the benefits of raising capital to support long-term growth. It is interesting to note that LLC and LLP organizational structures were essentially devised by attorneys. They generally are rather complicated, and the legal protection offered to their ownership principals may vary from state to state. For these reasons, it is usually necessary to retain a knowledgeable lawyer when establishing an organization of this type. Obviously, when a company is choosing an organizational structure, it must carefully evaluate the advantages and disadvantages that come with any form of doing business. For example, if an organization is considering a corporation structure, it would have to evaluate the trade-off of having the ability to raise greater amounts of funding to support growth and future expansion versus the effects of double taxation. Yet despite such organizational concerns with corporations, time has proven that the value of most businesses, other than relatively small ones, is very likely to be maximized if they are organized as corporations. This follows from the idea that limited ownership liability reduces the overall risks borne by investors. All other things being equal, the lower a firm's risk, the higher its value. Growth opportunities will also have a tremendous impact on the overall value of a business. Because corporations can raise financing more easily than most other types of organizations, they are better able to engage in profitable projects, make investments, and otherwise take superior advantage of their many favorable growth opportunities. The value of any asset will, to a large degree, depend on its liquidity. Liquidity refers to asset characteristics that enable the asset to be sold or otherwise converted into cash in a relatively short period of time and with minimal effort to attain fair market value for the owner. Because ownership of corporate stock is far easier to transfer to a potential buyer than is any interest in a business proprietorship or partnership, and because most investors are more willing to invest their funds in stocks than they are in partnerships that may carry unlimited liability, an investment in corporate stock will remain relatively liquid. This, too, is an advantage of a corporation and is another factor that enhances its value. LINK TO LEARNING Amazon Most people are surprised to learn than Amazon, the largest online retailer, is set up as an LLC. 2.1 • Business Structures 43