Remember that the normal distribution has two parameters: the mean, which is the center of the distribution, and the standard deviation, which measures the spread of the distribution. Here are several examples of applications of the normal distribution: • IQ scores follow a normal distribution, with a mean IQ score of 100 and a standard deviation of 15. • Salaries at a certain company follow a normal distribution, with a mean salary of $52,000 and a standard deviation of $4,800. • Grade point averages (GPAs) at a certain college follow a normal distribution, with a mean GPA of 3.27 and a standard deviation of 0.24. • The average annual gain of the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) over a 40-year time period follows a normal distribution, with a mean gain of 485 points and a standard deviation of 1,065 points. • The average annual return on the S&P 500 over a 50-year time period follows a normal distribution, with a mean rate of return of 10.5% and a standard deviation of 14.3%. • The average annual return on mid-cap stock funds over the five-year period from 2010 to 2015 follows a normal distribution, with a mean rate of return of 8.9% and a standard deviation of 3.7%. When analyzing data sets that follow a normal distribution, probabilities can be calculated by finding areas under the normal curve. To find the probability that a measurement is within a specific interval, we can compute the area under the normal curve corresponding to the interval of interest. Areas under the normal curve are available in tables, and Excel also provides a method to find these areas. The empirical rule is one method for determining areas under the normal curve that fall within a certain number of standard deviations of the mean (see Figure 13.4). Figure 13.4 Normal Distribution Showing Mean and Increments of Standard Deviation If x is a random variable and has a normal distribution with mean µ and standard deviation , then the empirical rule states the following: • About 68% of the x-values lie between and units from the mean (within one standard deviation of the mean). • About 95% of the x-values lie between and units from the mean (within two standard deviations of the mean). • About 99.7% of the x-values lie between and units from the mean (within three standard deviations of the mean). Notice that almost all the x-values lie within three standard deviations of the mean. • The z-scores for and are and , respectively. • The z-scores for and are and , respectively. • The z-scores for and are and , respectively. As an example of using the empirical rule, suppose we know that the average annual return for mid-cap stock funds over the five-year period from 2010 to 2015 follows a normal distribution, with a mean rate of return of 8.9% and a standard deviation of 3.7%. We are interested in knowing the likelihood that a randomly selected mid-cap stock fund provides a rate of return that falls within one standard deviation of the mean, which 13.5 • Probability Distributions 399