Fast-paced economic expansion is not sustainable. Eventually, growth slows and unemployment rises. The economy has moved from expansion to contraction when this occurs. The point at which the business cycle turns from expansion to contraction is known as the peak. The point at which the contraction ends and the economy begins to expand again is known as the trough. The length of one business cycle is measured by the time from one trough to the trough of the next cycle, as shown in Figure 3.15. Figure 3.15 Stages of the Business Cycle Often, the contraction is referred to as a recession. A private think tank, the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), tracks the business cycle in the United States. The NBER is the entity that officially declares recessions in the United States. Historically, a recession was defined as two consecutive quarters of declining GDP. Today, the NBER defines a recession in a broader, less precise manner; it will declare a recession when there is a significant decline in economic activity that is spread across the economy and lasts for at least a few months.8 Measures of real income, employment, industrial production, and wholesale and retail sales are considered in addition to real GDP. LINK TO LEARNING National Bureau of Economic Research The National Bureau of Economic Research was founded in 1920 to create measures of economic activity that could be used in public policy discussions. It is a private, nonpartisan organization that conducts research that is followed by businesses and the public sector. You can find out more about the NBER and view many of its research papers by visiting its website (https://openstax.org/r/nber-website). Historical Trends The NBER has identified business cycle peaks and troughs in data going back to the mid-19th century. Figure 3.16 lists each of these cycles, denoting the months of peaks and troughs. We see a repetition of the economic behavior-an expansion, a peak, a recession, and a trough, followed by yet another expansion, peak, recession, and trough. The cycles are events that repeatedly occur in the same order. 8 National Bureau of Economic Research. "Business Cycle Dating Committee Announcements." July 19, 2021. https://www.nber.org/ research/business-cycle-dating/business-cycle-dating-committee-announcements 84 3 • Economic Foundations: Money and Rates Access for free at openstax.org