Figure 19.4 Scenario 1 and 2 Comparison: Shortening the Cash Conversion Cycle LINK TO LEARNING A Harvard Business School blog post, How Amazon Survived the Dot-Com Bubble (https://openstax.org/r/ how-amazon-survived), discusses how Amazon managed its cash conversion cycle to the point where it was receiving payment for the things it sold before Amazon had to pay for them. In that way, Amazon had a negative cash conversion cycle (which is really a huge positive for a company trying to manage positive cash flow!). Working Capital Needs by Industry When comparing working capital needs by industry, you can see some variation. For example, some companies in the grocery business can have very low cash conversion cycles, while construction companies can have very high cash conversion cycles. And some companies, like those in the restaurant business, can have very low numbers and even have negative cash conversion cycles. Working capital can also differ from one industry to another. An often cited general rule is that a current ratio of 2 is considered optimal. However, general rules of thumb must be treated with caution. A better benchmarking approach is to compare a firm's ratios-current ratio and quick ratios-to the average of the industry in which the subject company operates. Take, for example, a home construction company. Such as firm has a long operating cycle because of the production process (building homes), and the "storage of finished goods" can result in very high current ratios-such as 11 or 12 times current liabilities-whereas a retailer like Walmart or Target would have much lower current ratios. In recent years, Walmart Stores Inc. (NYSE: WMT) has had a current ratio of around 0.9 and has been able to manage its working capital needs by efficient management of its supply chain, quick turnover of inventory, and a very small investment in accounts receivables.1 Big retailers like Walmart are effective at negotiating favorable payment terms with their vendors. The ability to generate consistent positive cash flow from operations allows a retailer like Walmart to operate with relatively low amounts of working capital. The credit policies of a company also affect working capital. A company with a liberal credit policy will require a greater amount of working capital, as collection periods of accounts receivable are longer and therefore tie up 1 Walmart Inc. "2020 Annual Report." 2020. https://corporate.walmart.com/media-library/document/2020-walmart-annual- report/_proxyDocument?id=00000171-a3ea-dfc0-af71-b3fea8490000 574 19 • The Importance of Trade Credit and Working Capital in Planning Access for free at openstax.org