We have introduced the concept of return here, which should be thought of as both the anticipated return for the preferred stockholder and the company's cost of borrowing money for this particular type of capital. Differences between Preferred and Common Stock As we have discussed, preferred stock has important differences from common stock that apply to issuing firms and to investors. Some of the most important of these differences are listed in Table 11.7. Feature Common Stock Preferred Stock Dividends Paid only after preferred stockholders are paid Highest priority, paid first Dividends Variable and may increase or decrease Predetermined rates, so constant dividend amounts Growth High potential but tied to company performance Liquidation Paid out last, after all creditors and preferred stockholders are paid Given preference in terms of payments, similar to bonds Voting Rights Yes No Arrears No accrual of missed dividends If cumulative, unpaid dividends become liability that must be paid out eventually Certainty Dividends potentially not paid if company earns no profits Dividends paid even when company experiences financial losses Table 11.7 Differences between Common Stock and Preferred Stock 11.5 Efficient Markets Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Understand what is meant by the term efficient markets. • Understand the term operational efficiency when referring to markets. • Understand the term informational efficiency when referring to markets. • Distinguish between strong, semi-strong, and weak levels of efficiency in markets. Efficient Markets For the public, the real concern when buying and selling of stock through the stock market is the question, "How do I know if I'm getting the best available price for my transaction?" We might ask an even broader question: Do these markets provide the best prices and the quickest possible execution of a trade? In other words, we want to know whether markets are efficient. By efficient markets, we mean markets in which costs are minimal and prices are current and fair to all traders. To answer our questions, we will look at two forms of efficiency: operational efficiency and informational efficiency. Operational Efficiency Operational efficiency concerns the speed and accuracy of processing a buy or sell order at the best available price. Through the years, the competitive nature of the market has promoted operational efficiency. In the past, the NYSE (New York Stock Exchange) used a designated-order turnaround computer system known as SuperDOT to manage orders. SuperDOT was designed to match buyers and sellers and execute trades with confirmation to both parties in a matter of seconds, giving both buyers and sellers the best 11.5 • Efficient Markets 345