We are calculating present values as we did in previous chapters, given a known future value "target," in order to determine how much money you need today to achieve that goal. Let us break this down by first reviewing the relevant equations from previous chapters. Present value of an ordinary annuity: Present value of a single amount: where PVa is the present value of an annuity, PYMT is one payment in a consistent stream (an annuity), i is the interest rate (annual unless otherwise specified), n is the number of periods, PV is the present value of a single amount, and FV is the future value of a single amount. You want to find out how much money you need to set aside today to accomplish your goal. You can also find out how much money you need to set aside in each period to accomplish this goal. Therefore, we can address this problem in increments. Let us look at potential solutions. First, we will break this down into the cash flows of each year. Table 9.5 shows the timing of the future cash flows you're expecting: Year 0 1 2 3 4 5 Expected Amount to Be Withdrawn at End of Year $0.00 $17,000 $17,000 $17,000 $17,500 $18,000 Table 9.5 One method is to take each year's cash flows, which happen at the end of the year, and discount them to today using the present value formula for a single amount: Because year 1's withdrawal from your fund only has one year to earn interest, we discounted it for one year. The second amount is discounted for two years: The next three years are discounted in the same way, for three, four, and five years, respectively: Notice how we reverse our thinking on the exponent n from our approach to future value. This time, it increases each period because we discount each future amount for a longer period to arrive at the value in today's dollars. When we add all five discounted present value amounts from above, we derive today's value of $72,753.49. Expressed more simply, if you wanted to extract the specified stream of cash flows at the end of each year 268 9 • Time Value of Money III: Unequal Multiple Payment Values Access for free at openstax.org