LINK TO LEARNING Calculating the NPV of an MBA Program The NPV calculation can be used as a decision tool when you are deciding whether you should spend money today to make money in the future. This website on calculating the NPV on an MBA degree (https://openstax.org/r/calculating-the-NPV) lets you apply this concept in an educational setting. The initial cost of the MBA includes both the dollars spent on tuition and the wages that a full-time student could have earned if they were not in school. Why is it appropriate to include these forgone wages in the calculation? What adjustments would students need to make to this analysis if they wanted to consider attending a part-time MBA program that allowed them to continue working while completing the program? NPV Profile The NPV of a project depends on the expected cash flows from the project and the discount rate used to translate those expected cash flows to the present value. When we used a 9% discount rate, the NPV of the embroidery machine project was $2,836. If a higher discount rate is used, the present value of future cash flows falls, and the NPV of the project falls. Theoretically, we should use the firm's cost to attract capital as the discount rate when calculating NPV. In reality, it is difficult to estimate this cost of capital accurately and confidently. Because the discount rate is an approximate value, we want to determine whether a small error in our estimate is important to our overall conclusion. We can do this by creating an NPV profile, which graphs the NPV at a variety of discount rates and allows us to determine how sensitive the NPV is to changes in the discount rate. To construct an NPV profile for Sam's, select several discount rates and compute the NPV for the embroidery machine project using each of those discount rates. Table 16.6 below shows the NPV for several discount rates. Notice that if the discount rate is zero, the NPV is simply the sum of the cash flows. As the discount rate becomes larger, the NPV falls and eventually becomes negative. The information in Table 16.6 is presented in a graph in Figure 16.2. We can see that the graph crosses the horizontal axis at about 14%. To the left, or at lower discount rates, the NPV is positive. If you are confident that the firm's cost of attracting funds is less than 14%, the company should accept the project. If the cost of capital is more than 14%, however, the NPV is negative, and the company should reject the project. Discount Rate NPV ($) 0% 10,000 3% 7,231 9% 2,836 12% 1,081 14% 42 15% (442) 18% (1,773) 21% (2,939) Table 16.6 NPV for Various Discount Rates 16.2 • Net Present Value (NPV) Method 485