misusing company funds. This could eventually result in declining bottom line results and company share prices, which would then lead to conflicts of interests between stockholders and company management. An example of an agency problem between management and shareholders occurred at WorldCom in 2001, when their CEO used company assets to underwrite several personal loans.3 As a result of these inappropriate actions, the company took on additional debt that negatively impacted WorldCom's capital structure, liquidity, and ultimately its stock price. From this example, we can see how individual greed on the part of agents, executives, or corporate management can lead to significant agency problems. Investors versus Creditors If a company decides to engage in risky investments and projects in order to drive organizational profitability, these increased risk levels could threaten the company's ability to service (repay) their debts, leading to possible default. This additional risk could also result in creditors taking steps to devalue such debts, which in most cases refers to company bond issues. In the end, if these riskier projects end up failing and the company loses money, investors (bondholders) may also experience financial risk as bonds go into default or otherwise lose market value. This then becomes a potential agency problem between bondholders (investors) and creditors. Stockholders versus Other Stakeholders Situations may arise in which stockholders of a firm find themselves in conflicts of interest with other stakeholders of the company. For example, employees of a firm might be asking for a general wage increase. If such a wage increase were voted down by stockholders, this could result in key employees departing the organization, eventually leading to poorer business results and the dissatisfaction of other stakeholders in the company as company profits decline. In such an example, we see the agency problem of stockholders versus other stakeholders. A more specific example of such an agency problem occurred in 2011, when Oregon-based food and gift basket company Harry & David was forced to file for bankruptcy.4 This was a direct result of the company being purchased through a leveraged buyout that left the company saddled with a tremendous amount of debt. However, the most important factor leading to the company's failure was the actions of Steven Heyer, who was a friend of the new owners and had been hired as CEO. Heyer, who was awarded an exorbitant executive salary, was also allowed to sink the company into further debt. Harry & David has since emerged from bankruptcy under new leadership. But this example should serve as a cautionary tale of what can happen when stockholders are able to put their interests ahead of those of other stakeholders in a corporate environment. CONCEPTS IN PRACTICE Infamous Agency Problems Enron Enron is one particularly infamous example of an agency problem. Enron's directors were responsible for protecting and promoting investor interests, but they failed to carry out their regulatory and oversight responsibilities, enabling the company to venture into illegal activity. The company's resulting accounting scandal resulted in billions of dollars in losses to its investors. At one time, Enron had been one of the largest companies in the United States. Despite being a multibillion- 3 Anshita Kohli. "Worldcom Scam: The Fall of the Biggest US Telecommunication Company." The Company Ninja. JD Learning Ventures, May 26, 2020. https://thecompany.ninja/worldcom-scam/ 4 Beth Kowitt. "Harry & David's Failed Mr. Fix-It." Fortune. April 1, 2011. https://fortune.com/2011/04/01/harry-davids-failed-mr-fix- it/ 2.4 • Agency Issues: Shareholders and Corporate Boards 51