Summary 20.1 The Importance of Risk Management Risk arises due to uncertainty. The future is unpredictable. One job of the financial manager is to manage the risks of both cash inflows and cash outflows. Investors are risk-averse. The riskier a firm's cash flows are, the higher the rate of return investors require to provide capital to the company. 20.2 Commodity Price Risk Companies do not know how much they will have to pay for raw materials in future months. The price of raw materials will change as economic conditions change, impacting a company's cost of goods sold and profits. Some ways that a company can hedge this risk are through vertical integration, long-term contracts, and futures contracts. 20.3 Exchange Rates and Risk Exchange rates are unpredictable. This leads to transaction risk, translation risk, and economic risk as currency values change. A forward contract is an agreement between two parties to make an exchange at a particular rate on a given date in the future. Companies can use options to mitigate the risks. A call option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to purchase an underlying asset. A put option give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to sell an underlying asset. 20.4 Interest Rate Risk When interest rates increase, the present value of future cash flows decreases. Duration is a measure of interest rate risk. A swap involves two parties agreeing to exchange something, often specified payment streams. Key Terms American option an option that the holder can exercise at any time up to and including the exercise date appreciate when one unit of a currency will purchase more of a foreign currency than it did previously call option an option that gives the owner the right, but not the obligation, to buy the underlying asset at a specified price on some future date depreciate when one unit of a currency will purchase less of a foreign currency than it did previously derivative a security that derives its value from another asset duration a measure of interest rate risk economic risk the risk that a change in exchange rates will impact the number of customers a business has or its sales European option an option that the holder can exercise only on the expiration date exchange rate the price of one currency in terms of another currency exercise price (strike price) the price the option holder pays for the underlying asset when exercising an option exercising choosing to purchase or sell the asset underlying a held option according to the terms of the option contract expiration date the date an option contract expires forward contract a contractual agreement between two parties to exchange a specified amount of assets on a specified future date futures contract a standardized contract to trade an asset on some future date at a price locked in today hedging taking an action to reduce exposure to a risk margin the collateral that must be posted to guarantee that a trader will honor a futures contract marking to market a procedure by which cash flows are exchanged daily for a futures contract, rather than at the end of the contract 618 20 • Summary Access for free at openstax.org