15.1 Risk and Return to an Individual Asset Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Compute the realized return from an individual investment. • Compute the average return and volatility of returns from historical data. • Describe firm-specific risk. Measuring Historical Returns Risk and return are often referred to as the two Rs of finance. Investors are interested in both risk and return because understanding one without the other is really meaningless. In terms of investment, the concept of return is fairly straightforward; return is the benefit, or profit, the investor expects from an expenditure. It is the reward for investing-the reason an investment is made in the first place. However, no investment is a sure thing. The return may not be what the investor was expecting. This uncertainty about what the return will be is referred to as risk. We begin by looking at how to measure both risk and return when considering an individual asset, such as one stock. If your grandparents bought 100 shares of Apple, Inc. stock for you when you were born, you are interested in knowing how well that investment has done. You may even want to compare how that investment has fared to how an investment in a different stock, perhaps Disney, would have done. You are interested in measuring the historical return. Individual Investment Realized Return The realized return of an investment is the total return that occurs over a particular time period. Suppose that you purchased a share of Target (TGT) at the beginning of January 2020 for $128.74. At the end of the year, you sold the stock for $176.53, which was $47.79 more than you paid for it. This increase in value is known as a capital gain. As the owner of the stock, you also received $2.68 in dividends during 2020. The total dollar return from your investment is calculated as It is common to express investment returns in percentage terms rather than dollar terms. This allows you to answer the question "How much do I receive for each dollar invested?" so that you can compare investments of different sizes. The total percent return from your investment is The dividend yield is calculated by dividing the dividends you received by the initial stock price. This calculation says that for each dollar invested in TGT in 2020, you received $0.0208 in dividends. The capital gain yield is the change in the stock price divided by the initial stock price. This calculation says that for each dollar invested in TGT in 2020, you received $0.3712 in capital gains. Your total percent return of 39.20% means that you made $0.392 for every dollar invested when your gains from both dividends and stock price appreciation are totaled together. THINK IT THROUGH Calculating Return You purchased 10 shares of 3M (MMM) stock in January 2020 for $175 per share, received dividends of $5.91 450 15 • How to Think about Investing Access for free at openstax.org