interest rates impact all companies. Geopolitical events, major storms, and pandemics can also impact the entire market. Investors in stocks cannot avoid this type of risk. This unavoidable risk is the systematic risk that investors in stocks have. This systematic risk cannot be eliminated through diversification. In addition, as per research conducted by Meir Statman,4 the standard deviation of a portfolio drops quickly as the number of stocks in the portfolio increases from one to two or three (see Figure 2 illustration in this subsequent article by Statman (https://openstax.org/r/subsequent_Statman) for context). Increasing the size of the portfolio decreases the standard deviation, and thus the risk, of the portfolio. However, as the portfolio increases in size, the amount of risk reduced by adding one more stock to the portfolio will decrease. How many stocks does an investor need for a portfolio to be well-diversified? There is not an exact number that all financial managers agree on. A portfolio of 15 highly correlated stocks will offer less benefits of diversification than a portfolio of 10 stocks with lower correlation coefficients. A portfolio that consists of American Airlines, Spirit Airlines, United Airlines, Southwest Airlines, Delta Airlines, and Jet Blue, along with a few other stocks, is not very diversified because of the heavy concentration in the airline industry. The term diversified portfolio is a relative concept, but the average investor can create a reasonably diversified portfolio with approximately a dozen stocks. 15.3 The Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Define risk premium. • Explain the concept of beta. • Compute the required return of a security using the CAPM. Risk-Free Rate The capital asset pricing model (CAPM) is a financial theory based on the idea that investors who are willing to hold stocks that have higher systematic risk should be rewarded more for taking on this market risk. The CAPM focuses on systematic risk, rather than a stock's individual risk, because firm-specific risk can be eliminated through diversification. Suppose that your grandparents have given you a gift of $20,000. After you graduate from college, you plan to work for a few years and then apply to law school. You want to use the $20,000 your grandparents gave you to pay for part of your law school tuition. It will be several years before you are ready to spend the money, and you want to keep the money safe. At the same time, you would like to invest the money and have it grow until you are ready to start law school. Although you would like to earn a return on the money so that you have more than $20,000 by the time you start law school, your primary objective is to keep the money safe. You are looking for a risk-free investment. Lending money to the US government is considered the lowest-risk investment that you can make. You can purchase a US Treasury security. The chances of the US government not paying its debts is close to zero. Although, in theory, no investment is 100% risk-free, investing in US government securities is generally considered a risk-free investment because the risk is so miniscule. 4 Meir Statman. "How Many Stocks Make a Diversified Portfolio?" Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 22, no. 3 (September 1987): 353-363. https://doi.org/10.2307/2330969 15.3 • The Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) 461