Figure 15.5 Calculation of the Average Return and Standard Deviation for a Portfolio (data source: Yahoo! Finance) The monthly returns for each stock are recorded in their respective columns. The portfolio return for each month is calculated as the weighted average of the four monthly individual stock returns. The formula for the portfolio return is The formula =$B$1*B3+$C$1*C3+$D$1*D3+$E$1*E3 is placed in cell F3. The formula is then copied down column F to calculate the portfolio return for each month. After the monthly portfolio return is calculated, then the average monthly portfolio return is calculated in cell F39. The average monthly portfolio return is 2.69%. Because this is an equally weighted portfolio, with each of the four stocks impacting the portfolio return in the same way, the average monthly portfolio return of 2.69% is the same as the sum of the average monthly returns of the four stocks divided by four, or . The standard deviation of the monthly portfolio returns is calculated in cell F40. This four-stock portfolio has a standard deviation of 7.10%. Unlike the average return, this standard deviation is not equal to the average of the standard deviations of returns of the four stocks. In fact, the standard deviation for the portfolio is less than the standard deviation for any one of the four stocks. Remember that this occurs because the stock returns are not perfectly positively correlated. The high return of one of the stocks in one month is dampened by a lower return in another stock during the same month. Likewise, a negative return in one stock during a month might be offset by a positive return in one of the other three stocks during the same month. This is the risk reduction benefit of holding a portfolio of stocks. Calculating Beta The standard deviation of a stock's returns indicates the stock's volatility. Remember that the volatility is caused by both firm-specific and systematic risk. Investors will not be rewarded for firm-specific risk because 15.5 • Using Excel to Make Investment Decisions 469