Summary 18.1 The Importance of Forecasting Forecasting financial statements is important to different users for different reasons. In finance, it's most important for assessing the value of future growth plans and planning for future cash flow needs. 18.2 Forecasting Sales The sales forecast is the foundation on which much of the rest of the forecast is built. Thus, the sales forecast is completed first. Historical sales data and any other information on the firm, its products, the economy, its customers, and its competitors are all used to create the most accurate sales forecast possible. 18.3 Pro Forma Financials Pro forma financial statements are forward looking in nature. They use the sales forecast, historical data, financial statement analyses, relationships between accounts and statements, and any other information known about the firm, the environment, and the future to create the most accurate financial statement forecast possible. 18.4 Generating the Complete Forecast Interrelationships among historical data, the forecasted income statement, and the forecasted balance sheet are all used to estimate each line item in the financial statements. 18.5 Forecasting Cash Flow and Assessing the Value of Growth Once the income statement and balance sheet forecasts are complete, data from those statements, information on company policies, and account relationships are used to generate a cash forecast. The cash forecast is important for identifying any gaps in cash flow so that financial managers can plan for cash needs. It's also important to review not only the cash forecast but all forecasted financial statements to assess the overall impact and value of proposed firm growth. 18.6 Using Excel to Create the Long-Term Forecast Excel can be a powerful tool for creating financial forecasts. Formulas that complete mathematical functions and tie accounts and financial statements together are used to create the statements, ensure that they balance, and facilitate scenario and sensitivity analyses. Key Terms balance sheet a financial statement that reflects a firm's asset, liability, and equity account balances at a given point in time cash deficit an excess of cash outflows over cash inflows for a given period cash forecast a financial statement that estimates a firm's future cash inflows and outflows cash surplus an excess of cash inflows over cash outflows for a given period common-size describes a financial statement in which each element is expressed as a percentage of a base amount financing activities cash business transactions reported on the statement of cash flows that reflect the use of financed funds forecast an estimate of future performance based on historical performance and other contextual information income statement a financial statement that measures a firm's financial performance over a given period of time investing activities cash business transactions reported on the statement of cash flows that reflect the acquisition or disposal of long-term assets 18 • Summary 559