Finally, the results obtained using DDMs may not be related to the results of a company's operations or its profitability. Dividend payments should theoretically be tied to a company's profitability, but in some instances, companies will make misguided efforts to maintain a stable dividend payout even through the use of increased borrowing and debt, which is not beneficial to an organization's long-term financial health. (sources: www.wallstreetmojo.com/dividend-discount-model/; pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/ valn2ed/ch13d.pdf; www.managementstudyguide.com/disadvantages-of-dividend-discount-model.htm) Stock Valuation with Changing Growth Rates and Time Horizons Before we move on from our discussion of dividend discount models, let's work through some more examples of how the DDM can be used with a number of different scenarios, changing growth rates, and time horizons. As we have seen, the value or price of a financial asset is equal to the present value of the expected future cash flows received while maintaining ownership of the asset. In the case of stock, investors receive cash flows in the form of dividends from the company, plus a final payout when they decide to relinquish their ownership rights or sell the stock. Let's look at a simple illustration of the price of a single share of common stock when we know the future dividends and final selling price. Problem: Steve wants to purchase shares of Old Peak Construction Company and hold these common shares for five years. The company will pay $5.00 annual cash dividends per share for the next five years. At the end of the five years, Steve will sell the stock. He believes that he will be able to sell the stock for $25.00 per share. If Steve wants to earn 10% on this investment, what price should he pay today for this stock? Solution: The current price of the stock is the discounted cash flow that Steve will receive over the next five years while holding the stock. If we let the final price represent a lump-sum future value and treat the dividend payments as an annuity stream over the next five years, we can apply the time value of money concepts we covered in earlier chapters. Method 1: Using an Equation Method 2: Using a Financial Calculator We can also use a calculator or spreadsheet to find the price of the stock (see Table 11.2). 11.2 • Dividend Discount Models (DDMs) 333