Calculating the Present Value of an Annuity Due Earlier, we defined an ordinary annuity. A variation is the annuity due. The difference between the two is one period. That's all-just one additional period of interest. An ordinary annuity assumes that there is a one- period lag between the start of a stream of payments and the actual first payment. In contrast, an annuity due assumes that payments begin immediately, as in the lottery example above. We would assume that you would receive the first annual lottery check of $120,000 immediately, not a year from now. In summary, whether calculating future value (covered in the next section) or present value of an annuity due, the one-year lag is eliminated, and we begin immediately. Since the difference is simply one additional period of time, we can adjust for this easily by taking the formula for an ordinary annuity and multiplying by one additional period. One more period, of course, is (1 + i). Recall from Time Value of Money I that the formula for compounding is (1 + i)N, where i is the interest rate and N is the number of periods. The superscript N does not apply because it represents 1, for one additional period, and the power of 1 can be ignored. Therefore, faced with an annuity due problem, we solve as if it were an ordinary annuity, but we multiply by (1 + i) one more time. In our original example from this section, we wished to withdraw $25,000 each year for five years from a fund that we would establish now. We determined how much that fund should be worth today if we intend to receive our first payment one year from now. Throughout this fund's life, it will earn 8% annually. This time, let's assume we'll withdraw our first payment immediately, at point zero, making this an annuity due. Because we're trying to determine how much our starting balance should be, it makes sense that we must begin with a larger number. Why? Because we're pulling our first payment out immediately, so less money will remain to start compounding to the amount we need to fund all five of our planned payments! Our rule can be stated as follows: Whether one is calculating present value or future value, the result of an annuity due must always be larger than that of an ordinary annuity, all other facts remaining constant. Here is the stream of solutions for the example above, but please notice that we will multiply by (1 + i), one additional period, following the same order of operations: That's how much we must start our fund with today, before we earn any interest or draw out any money. Note that it's larger than the $99,817.81 that would be required for an ordinary annuity. It must be, because we're about to diminish our compounding power with an immediate withdrawal, so we have to begin with a larger amount. We notice several things: 1. The formula must change because the annual payment is subtracted first, prior to the calculation of annual interest. 2. We accomplish the same result, aside from an insignificant rounding difference: the fund is depleted once the last payment is withdrawn. 3. The last payment is withdrawn on the first day of the final year, not the last. Therefore, no interest is earned during the fifth and final year. 234 8 • Time Value of Money II: Equal Multiple Payments Access for free at openstax.org