The rate that you can earn by purchasing US Treasury securities is a proxy for the risk-free rate. It is used as an investing benchmark. The average rate of return for the three-month US Treasury security from 1928 to 2020 is 3.36%.5 You can see that you will not become immensely wealthy by investing in US Treasury bills. Another characteristic of US Treasury securities, however, is that their volatility tends to be much lower than that of stocks. In fact, the standard deviation of returns for the US Treasury bills is 3.0%. Unlike the returns for stocks, the return on US Treasury bills has never been negative. The lowest annual return was 0.03%, which occurred in 2014.6 LINK TO LEARNING US Treasury Securities Visit the website of the US Department of the Treasury (https://openstax.org/r/home.treasury) to learn more about US Treasury securities. You will find current interest rates for both short-term securities (US Treasury bills) and long-term securities (US Treasury bonds). Risk Premium You know that if you use your $20,000 to invest in stock rather than in US Treasury bills, the outcome of the investment will be uncertain. Your investments may do well, but there is also a risk of losing money. You will only be willing to take on this risk if you are rewarded for doing so. In other words, you will only be willing to take the risk of investing in stocks if you think that doing so will make you more than you would make investing in US Treasury securities. From 1928 to 2020, the average return for the S&P 500 stock index has been 11.64%, which is much higher than the 3.36% average return for US Treasury bills.7 Stock returns, with a standard deviation of 19.49%, however, have also been much more volatile. In fact, there were 25 years in which the return for the S&P 500 index was negative. You may not be willing to take the risk of losing some of the money your grandparents gave you because you have been setting it aside for law school. If that's the case, you will want to invest in US Treasury securities. You may have money that you are saving for other long-term goals, such as retirement, with which you are willing to take some risk. The extra return that you will earn for taking on risk is known as the risk premium. The risk premium can be thought of as your reward for being willing to bear risk. The risk premium is calculated as the difference between the return you receive for taking on risk and what you would have returned if you did not take on risk. Using the average return of the S&P 500 (to measure what investors who bear the risk earn) and the US Treasury bill rate (to measure what investors who do not bear risk earn), the risk premium is calculated as Beta The risk premium represents how much an investor who takes on the market portfolio is rewarded for risk. Investors who purchase one stock-DAL, for example-experience volatility, which is measured by the standard deviation of that stock's returns. Remember that some of that volatility, the volatility caused by firm- specific risk, can be diversified away. Because investors can eliminate firm-specific risk through diversification, they will not be rewarded for that risk. Investors are rewarded for the amount of systematic risk they incur. 5 "Historical Return on Stocks, Bonds and Bills: 1928-2020." Damodaran Online. Stern School of Business, New York University, January 2021. http://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/New_Home_Page/datafile/histretSP.html 6 Ibid. 7 Ibid. 462 15 • How to Think about Investing Access for free at openstax.org