Type, refers to the timing of a payment and carries a default value of the end of the period, which is the most common timing (as opposed to the beginning of a period). This may be ignored in our current example, which means the default value of the end of the period will be used. The spreadsheet in Figure 7.3 shows two examples of using the FV function in Excel to calculate the future value of $100 in five years at 5% interest. In cell E1, the FV function references the values in cells B1 through B4 for each of the arguments. When a user begins to type a function into a spreadsheet, Excel provides helpful information in the form of on-screen tips showing the argument inputs that are required to complete the function. In our spreadsheet example, as the FV formula is being typed into cell E2, a banner showing the arguments necessary to complete the function appears directly below, hovering over cell E3. Figure 7.3 Using the FV Function in Excel Cells E1 and E2 show how the FV function appears in the spreadsheet as it is typed in with the required arguments. Cell E4 shows the calculated answer for cell E1 after hitting the enter key. Once the enter key is pressed, the hint banner hovering over cell E3 will disappear. The second example of the FV function in our example spreadsheet is in cell E6. Here, the actual numerical values are used in the FV function equation rather than cell references. The method in cell E8 is referred to as hard coding. In general, it is preferable to use the cell reference method, as this allows for copying formulas and provides the user with increased flexibility in accounting for changes to input data. This ability to accept cell references in formulas is one of the greatest strengths of Excel as a spreadsheet tool. Download the spreadsheet file (https://openstax.org/r/docs.google_uc_export) containing key Chapter 7 Excel exhibits. Determining Future Value When Other Variables Are Known. You have $2,000 invested in a money market account that is expected to earn 4% annually. What will be the total value in the account in five years? Note: Be sure to follow the sign conventions. In this case, the PV should be entered as a negative value. Note: In Excel, interest and growth rates must be entered as percentages, not as whole integers. So, 4 percent must be entered as 4% or 0.04-not 4, as you would enter in a financial calculator. Note: It is always assumed that if not specifically stated, the compounding period of any given interest rate is annual, or based on years. Note: The Excel command used to calculate future value is as follows: 7.3 • Methods for Solving Time Value of Money Problems 203