normal distribution. Figure 13.3 Graph of the Normal Distribution The curve in Figure 13.3 is symmetric about a vertical line drawn through the mean, . The mean is the same as the median, which is the same as the mode, because the graph is symmetric about . As the notation indicates, the normal distribution depends only on the mean and the standard deviation. Because the area under the curve must equal 1, a change in the standard deviation, , causes a change in the shape of the normal curve; the curve becomes fatter and wider or skinnier and taller depending on . A change in causes the graph to shift to the left or right. This means there are an infinite number of normal probability distributions. To determine probabilities associated with the normal distribution, we find specific areas under the normal curve, and this is further discussed in Apply the Normal Distribution in Financial Contexts. For example, suppose that at a financial consulting company, the mean employee salary is $60,000 with a standard deviation of $7,500. A normal curve can be drawn to represent this scenario, in which the mean of $60,000 would be plotted on the horizontal axis, corresponding to the peak of the curve. Then, to find the probability that an employee earns more than $75,000, you would calculate the area under the normal curve to the right of the data value $75,000. Excel uses the following command to find the area under the normal curve to the left of a specified value: =NORM.DIST(XVALUE, MEAN, STANDARD_DEV, TRUE) For example, at the financial consulting company mentioned above, the mean employee salary is $60,000 with a standard deviation of $7,500. To find the probability that a random employee's salary is less than $55,000 using Excel, this is the command you would use: =NORM.DIST(55000, 60000, 7500, TRUE) Result: 0.25249 Thus, there is a probability of about 25% that a random employee has a salary less than $55,000. Exponential Distribution The exponential distribution is often concerned with the amount of time until some specific event occurs. For example, a finance professional might want to model the time to default on payments for company debt holders. An exponential distribution is one in which there are fewer large values and more small values. For example, marketing studies have shown that the amount of money customers spend in a store follows an exponential distribution. There are more people who spend small amounts of money and fewer people who spend large amounts of money. Exponential distributions are commonly used in calculations of product reliability, or the length of time a product lasts. The random variable for the exponential distribution is continuous and often measures a 13.4 • Statistical Distributions 395