• Call risk and reinvestment risk. Call risk is the risk of bonds being redeemed or called by the issuing firm before their maturity dates. Corporations may elect to call a bond issue (provided the bond issue has a call feature) when interest rates drop and companies are in a position to save a great deal of money by issuing new bonds with lower coupon rates. To investors, this is a risk in and of itself, but call risk also has the effect of potentially causing reinvestment risk. Reinvestment risk is defined as the risk to investors when they find themselves facing unfavorable alternatives for investing the proceeds from their called bonds in new, lower-paying investments. This can potentially lead to substantial financial loss for the original bond investors. • Term risk. Investors will generally demand higher returns for lending funds at fixed interest rates. This is because doing so exposes them to the risks presented by rising interest rates and the negative impact of these higher rates on their bond holdings. In a scenario of rising interest rates, investors will find that their return from lending money through a bond purchase just once, at a fixed interest rate, will be lower than the return they might have realized from making several different investments for much shorter periods of time. Term risk is usually measured by a special indicator referred to as the term premium. As mentioned above, however, the most common forms of bond risk are interest rate risk and default risk. Interest Rate Risk As we have discussed, when interest rates rise, bond values will fall. This is the general concept behind interest rate risk. Any investor in fixed-income securities (such as bonds) will have to contend with interest rate risk at one time or another. Interest rate risk is also referred to as market risk and usually increases the longer an investor maintains a bond investment. Default Risk Any time a bond is purchased, the investor is taking a risk that the bond issuer may be late in making scheduled payments on a bond issue-or, in the worst case, may not be able to make payments at all. This is the underlying idea behind the concept of default risk. Because US Treasury securities have the full backing of the government, they are generally considered free of default risk. However, most corporate bonds will face some possibility of default. Obviously, some bonds and their issuing companies are riskier in this respect than others. To assist potential bond investors in understanding some of these risks, bond ratings are regularly published by a number of organizations to express their assessment of the risk quality of various bond issues. We will discuss these bond ratings and the companies that issue them next. Bond Ratings and Rating Providers It is important for investors to know the risks they are assuming when investing in bonds. Many investors will take advantage of information provided by bond rating services to assess the likelihood of borrowers (bond issuers) defaulting on the financial obligations of their bond issues. To help investors evaluate the default risks of bonds, rating agencies (bond rating services) were established to evaluate bonds and other fixed-income investments, taking into consideration and then analyzing any information that has been published or otherwise made available to the investing public. These services then apply a rating system that has been developed for measuring the quality of bonds and assign individual grades to each bond and its issuing company. The three largest and best-known bond rating providers are Fitch Ratings, Moody's Investors Service, and Standard & Poor's (S&P) Global Ratings. The rating system used by these services identifies the very highest- quality bonds (the least likely to default) as triple-A (AAA or Aaa), followed next in quality level by double-A bonds (AA or Aa), and so on. Any bond that is rated BBB (S&P, Fitch) / Baa (Moody's) or higher is referred to as investment grade and is considered strong and stable by the investment community (see Table 10.11). 302 10 • Bonds and Bond Valuation Access for free at openstax.org