month to get the full year. Figure 18.9 Forecasted Sales Data Keep in mind that this is only a starting point. These estimates will be reviewed, assessed, and updated as more information and other factors are taken into consideration. It can also be helpful to look at a shorter period, perhaps just the last few months, on a more detailed basis (by department, by customer, etc.) to see if there are any possible new trends beginning to develop that might be an indicator of performance in the coming year. For example, Clear Lake Sporting Goods might look at detailed sales records for October, November, and December and see that it had an old product line that was discontinued in early October, which contributed to a 2% reduction in monthly sales. This reduction in monthly sales will likely continue into the new year until the new line the company has signed on begins arriving in stores. Thus, the management team feels they should reduce their first quarter monthly estimates by 2%, as reflected in Figure 18.10. January is now , for example. Figure 18.10 Adjusted Forecasted Sales Data Changes for the Future It's important to note that the past is not always a reliable predictor of the future. Circumstances can often change to make the future quite different from the past. The business itself may change, the economy can change, the customer base may undergo a shift in demographics or a change in buying habits, new competition may emerge, and so on. So while past performance is helpful, it is only one step in the process of forecasting sales. LINK TO LEARNING Big 5 Sporting Goods MD&A Report Review the most recent annual report for Big 5 Sporting Goods (https://openstax.org/r/ annual_report_for_Big_5_Sporting_Goods). Review the management's discussion and analysis (MD&A) report (Item 7). What information does the report share about the firm, the economy, and other factors that might be useful for forecasting sales growth for next year? Most firms first look to the past to target some form of baseline estimate for the coming year; then, managers begin making adjustments based on what they know about the future. Assume that Clear Lake Sporting Goods will be adding a new brand to its collection of fishing supplies in March. The manufacturer plans to begin running its commercials in late February, which managers anticipate will increase Clear Lake's monthly sales 18.2 • Forecasting Sales 543