his approach to investing suggested that, unless he could see the future, at some point his expectations would be incorrect. Perhaps Gross's greatest competition comes from a generation of investment managers who learned and improved upon his proven strategies. He retired as an active public fund manager in 2019. Today, Gross continues to manage his personal fortune, as well as the assets in his family charitable foundation. Gross and the foundation have donated over $800 million to several causes over the last two decades. In 2020, Gross joined Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, and hundreds of other billionaires in signing the Giving Pledge, whose signees promise to donate over 50% of their wealth during their lifetime and/or upon their death. (Sources: Mary Childs. "Bill Gross Made the Bond Market What It Is Today." Barron's. February 8, 2019. https://www.barrons.com/articles/bill-gross-bond-market-investing-legacy-51549669974; Jeff Sommer. "Once the 'Bond King,' Bill Gross Is Retiring, His Star Dimmed." New York Times. February 4, 2019. https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/04/business/bond-king-bill-gross-retirement.html; CNN. "Bill Gross Fast Facts." CNN. March 31, 2021. https://www.cnn.com/2013/04/08/us/bill-gross-fast-facts/) 12.4 Historical Picture of Returns to Stocks Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain overall equity market behavior over various historical periods. • Explain different equity style and size behavior over various historical periods. • Extract various equity market performance results from plots and charts. Using Graphs and Charts to Plot Equity Market Behavior Stock Size Considerations The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), also known as the Dow 30) and the S&P 500 Index are the most frequently quoted stock market indices among scholars, businesses, and the public in general. Both indices track the change in value of a group of large capitalization stocks. The changes in the two indices are highly correlated. It may be fair to question if either index is a good representation of the value of equity and the changes in value in the market because there are over 6,000 publicly traded companies listed on organized exchanges and thousands of additional companies that trade only over the counter. As of year-end 2020, the S&P 500 firms had a combined market capitalization of $33.4 trillion, about 66% of the estimated US equity market capitalization of $50.8 trillion.20 It is widely agreed that the performance of the S&P 500 is a good representation of the broader market and more specifically of large capitalization firms. Figure 12.13 provides a visualization of how S&P 500 stock returns have stacked up since 1900. This figure makes it clear that equity returns roughly follow a bell curve, or normal distribution. Thus, we are able to measure risk with standard deviation. A lower standard deviation of returns suggests less uncertainty of returns and therefore less risk. Capital market history demonstrates that the average return to stocks has significantly outperformed other financial security classes, such as government bonds, corporate bonds, or the money market. Table 12.4 provides the return and standard deviation of several US investment classes over the 40-year period 1981-2020. As you can see, stocks outperformed bonds, bills, and inflation. This has led many investment advisers to emphasize asset allocation first and individual security selection second. The intuition is that the 20 Spencer Israel. "The Number of Companies Publicly Traded in the US Is Shrinking-Or Is It?" MarketWatch. October 30, 2020. https://www.marketwatch.com/story/the-number-of-companies-publicly-traded-in-the-us-is-shrinkingor-is-it-2020-10-30; Siblis Research. "Total Market Value of US Stock Market." Siblis Research. https://siblisresearch.com/data/us-stock-market-value/ 370 12 • Historical Performance of US Markets Access for free at openstax.org