Figure 20.7 The Payoff to the Writer of a Put Option The owner of the option will choose to exercise the option if the exchange rate is less than . If the spot exchange rate is between and , the writer of the put option has a positive payoff. Although the writer must now purchase US dollars for a price higher than what the dollars are worth, the INR 5 premium that the writer received when entering into the position is more than enough to offset that loss. If the spot exchange rate drops below , however, the writer of the put option is losing more than INR 5 when the option is exercised, leaving the writer with a negative payoff. In the extreme, the writer of the put will have to purchase worthless US dollars for INR 75/USD, resulting in a loss of INR 70. Notice that the payoff to the writer of the put is the negative of the payoff to the holder of the put at every spot price. The highest payoff occurs to the writer of the put when the option is never exercised. In that instance, the payoff to the writer is the premium that the holder of the put paid when purchasing the option (see Figure 20.7). Table 20.2 provides a summary of the positions that the parties who enter into options contract are in. Remember that the buyer of an option is always the one purchasing the right to do something. The seller or writer of an option is selling the right to make a decision; the seller has the obligation to fulfill the contract should the buyer of the option choose to exercise the option. The most the seller of an option can ever profit is by the premium that was paid for the option; this occurs when the option is not exercised. Benefits Harm Party to an Option Contract Right of the Party Obligation of the Party When Maximum Profit When Maximum Loss Buyer of a call To buy Price of underlying rises Unlimited Price of underlying falls Premium paid Seller of a call To sell Price of underlying falls Premium received Price of underlying rises Unlimited Buyer of a put To sell Price of underlying falls Strike price minus premium Price of underlying rises Premium paid Table 20.2 Summary of Option Contracts 20.3 • Exchange Rates and Risk 613