Using the future value formula, the calculation is as follows: How the Interest Rate Impacts Compounding Melvin likes the idea of earning more money over time, but he also believes that what he would earn in interest may not be enough for some of the things he plans to buy in the future. His friend suggests finding an account or some form of investment with a greater interest rate than the 5% he can get at his local bank. Melvin thinks he can leave his money in an account or investment for a total of five years. He found investments that will provide annual returns of 6%, 7%, 10%, and 12%. Using the formula, we can complete the following calculations for him: Again, Melvin likes this information, and he states that he will try to find the highest interest rate available. This makes sense, but it's important to remember that investments are usually not guaranteed to earn you specific interest rates, or rates of return. Most investments, other than Treasury investments such as Treasury bonds, carry some form of financial risk, either small or large, and the greater the rate of return, the more likely it is that the risk associated with the investment will also be greater. This risk does not have any effect on the future calculations we have just completed, but it an important factor to bear in mind and consider well before moving ahead and putting your money in any investment or financial instrument. 7.3 Methods for Solving Time Value of Money Problems Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain how future dollar amounts are calculated. • Explain how present dollar amounts are calculated. • Describe how discount rates are calculated. • Describe how growth rates are calculated. • Illustrate how periods of time for specified growth are calculated. • Use a financial calculator and Excel to solve TVM problems. We can determine future value by using any of four methods: (1) mathematical equations, (2) calculators with financial functions, (3) spreadsheets, and (4) FVIF tables. With the advent and wide acceptance and use of financial calculators and spreadsheet software, FVIF (and other such time value of money tables and factors) have become obsolete, and we will not discuss them in this text. Nevertheless, they are often still published in other finance textbooks and are also available on the internet to use if you so choose. Using Timelines to Organize TVM Information A useful tool for conceptualizing present value and future value problems is a timeline. A timeline is a visual, 196 7 • Time Value of Money I: Single Payment Value Access for free at openstax.org