Example: What is the intrinsic value of a stock that pays $2.00 in dividends every year if the required rate of return on similar investments in the market is 6%? Solution: We can apply the zero growth DDM formula to get While this model is relatively easy to understand and to calculate, it has one significant flaw: it is highly unlikely that a firm's stock would pay the exact same dollar amount in dividends forever, or even for an extended period of time. As companies change and grow, dividend policies will change, and it naturally follows that the payout of dividends will also change. This is why it is important to become familiar with other DDMs that may be more practical in their use. Constant Growth Dividend Discount Model As indicated by its name, the constant growth DDM assumes that a stock's dividend payments will grow at a fixed annual percentage that will remain the same throughout the period of time they are held by an investor. While the constant growth DDM may be more realistic than the zero growth DDM in allowing for dividend growth, it assumes that dividends grow by the same specific percentage each year. This is also an unrealistic assumption that can present problems when attempting to evaluate companies such as Amazon, Facebook, Google, or other organizations that do not pay dividends. Constant growth models are most often used to value mature companies whose dividend payments have steadily increased over a significant period of time. When applied, the constant growth DDM will generate the present value of an infinite stream of dividends that are growing at a constant rate. The constant growth DDM formula is where D0 is the value of the dividend received this year, D1 is the value of the dividend to be received next year, g is the growth rate of the dividend, and r is the required rate of return. As can be seen above, after simplification, the constant growth DDM formula becomes the Gordon growth model formula and works in the same way. Let's look at some examples. THINK IT THROUGH Constant Growth DDM: Example 1 If a stock is paying a dividend of $5.00 this year and the dividend has been steadily growing at 4% annually, what is the intrinsic value of the stock, assuming an investor's required rate of return of 8%? Solution: Apply the constant growth DDM formula: Simplify to the Gordon growth model: 11.2 • Dividend Discount Models (DDMs) 327