where n refers to the number of data pairs and the symbol indicates to sum the x-values. Table 14.2 provides a step-by-step procedure on how to calculate the correlation coefficient r. Step Representation in Symbols 1. Calculate the sum of the x-values. 2. Calculate the sum of the y-values. 3. Multiply each x-value by the corresponding y-value and calculate the sum of these xy products. 4. Square each x-value and then calculate the sum of these squared values. 5. Square each y-value and then calculate the sum of these squared values. 6. Determine the value of n, which is the number of data pairs. n 7. Use these results to then substitute into the formula for the correlation coefficient. Table 14.2 Steps for Calculating the Correlation Coefficient Note that since r is calculated using sample data, r is considered a sample statistic used to measure the strength of the correlation for the two population variables. Sample data indicates data based on a subset of the entire population. Given the complexity of this calculation, Excel or other software is typically used to calculate the correlation coefficient. The Excel command to calculate the correlation coefficient uses the following format: =CORREL(A1:A10, B1:B10) where A1:A10 are the cells containing the x-values and B1:B10 are the cells containing the y-values. Download the spreadsheet file (https://openstax.org/r/excel_exhibits) containing key Chapter 14 Excel exhibits. Interpret a Correlation Coefficient Once the value of r is calculated, this measurement provides two indicators for the correlation: a. the strength of the correlation based on the value of r b. the direction of the correlation based on the sign of r The value of r gives us this information: • The value of r is always between and : . • The size of the correlation r indicates the strength of the linear relationship between the two variables. Values of r close to or to indicate a stronger linear relationship. • If , there is no linear relationship between the two variables (no linear correlation). • If , there is perfect positive correlation. • If there is perfect negative correlation. In both of these cases, all the original data points lie on a straight line. The sign of r gives us this information: 420 14 • Regression Analysis in Finance Access for free at openstax.org