together. Because there is no formal exchange present, it is possible that investors will have trouble finding buyers or sellers for their stocks. Most of the trading consists of used or previously issued stocks in over-the-counter markets and organized exchanges. The two largest stock exchanges in the world, as measured by the market capitalization of the companies listed on the exchange, are the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the NASDAQ. Both exchanges are located in the United States. Other large stock exchanges are located in Japan, China, Hong Kong, continental Europe, London, and Saudi Arabia. Process of Offering Equities The primary market is the market for new securities, and the secondary market is the market for used securities. When issuing new equity, the issuing firm receives the proceeds of the sale. Having an active secondary market makes it easier for corporations to issue stock, as investors know they can resell if desired. Most of the trading of equity securities is for used securities on the secondary market. An initial public offering, or IPO, occurs when a firm offers stock to the public for the first time. With a typical IPO, a private company decides to raise capital and go public with the help of an investment banker. The investment banker agrees to provide financial advice, recommend the price and number of shares to issue, and establish a syndicate of underwriters to finance and ultimately distribute the new shares to investors (see Figure 12.3). An IPO is expensive for the issuing firm, and it can expect to incur costs of 5% to 8% or more of the value of the IPO. As of the end of 2020, the largest successful IPO belongs to Saudi Aramco, a petroleum company, valued at $25.6 billion at issue in December 2019.8 The Ant Group had planned an IPO valued at over $34 billion dollars in 2020, but as of the end of 2020 that issue was put on hold by the Chinese government.9 Institutional and preferred individual investors are typically the initial purchasers of IPOs. Smaller investors rarely have the opportunity to purchase. However, any investor can buy the new shares once available for public trading. Investment author and financial expert Professor Burton Malkiel cautions that buying IPOs immediately after issue can be a money-losing investment. He cites research showing that, historically, IPOs have underperformed the market by an average of 4% per year.10 Another way for a corporation to raise capital in the equity market is through a seasoned equity offering (SEO). An IPO occurs when a firm transitions from a private to a public company. An SEO takes place when a corporation that is already publicly traded issues additional shares of stock to the public. An SEO is often part of a SEC Rule 415 offering, or so-called shelf registration. Shelf registrations allow a company to register with the SEC to issue new shares but wait up to two years before issuing the shares. This gives companies the ability to register their intent to issue new shares and to "set them on the shelf" until market conditions are most favorable for issuance to the public. 8 Jennifer Rudden. "Largest IPOs Worldwide as of January 21, 2021." Statista. 2021. https://www.statista.com/statistics/269343/ worlds-largest-ipos/ 9 Deborah D'Souza. "Ant Group Set to Be World's Largest IPO Ever." Investopedia. October 27, 2020. https://www.investopedia.com/ant-group-set-to-be-world-s-largest-ipo-ever-5084457; Jasper Jolly. "Ant Group Forced to Suspend Biggest Share Offering in History." The Guardian. https://www.theguardian.com/business/2020/nov/03/biggest-share-offering-in- history-on-hold-as-ant-group-suspends-launch 10 Burton Malkiel. A Random Walk down Wall Street. 10th ed. W. W. Norton, 2012. 360 12 • Historical Performance of US Markets Access for free at openstax.org