17.1 The Concept of Capital Structure By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Distinguish between the two major sources of capital appearing on a balance sheet. • Explain why there is a cost of capital. • Calculate the weights in a company's capital structure. The Basic Balance Sheet In order to produce and sell its products or services, a company needs assets. If a firm will produce shirts, for example, it will need equipment such as sewing machines, cutting boards, irons, and a building in which to store its equipment. The company will also need some raw materials such as fabric, buttons, and thread. These items the company needs to conduct its operations are assets. They appear on the left-hand side of the balance sheet. The company has to pay for these assets. The sources of the money the company uses to pay for these assets appear on the right-hand side of the balance sheet. The company's sources of financing represent its capital. There are two broad types of capital: debt (or borrowing) and equity (or ownership). Figure 17.2 is a representation of a basic balance sheet. Remember that the two sides of the balance sheet must be . Companies typically finance their assets through equity (selling ownership shares to stockholders) and debt (borrowing money from lenders). The debt that a firm uses is often referred to as financial leverage. The relative proportions of debt and equity that a firm uses in financing its assets is referred to as its capital structure. Figure 17.2 Basic Balance Sheet for Company with Debt, Preferred Stock, and Common Equity in Capital Structure Attracting Capital When a company raises money from investors, those investors forgo the opportunity to invest that money elsewhere. In economics terms, there is an opportunity cost to those who buy a company's bonds or stock. Suppose, for example, that you have $5,000, and you purchase Tesla stock. You could have purchased Apple stock or Disney stock instead. There were many other options, but once you chose Tesla stock, you no longer had the money available for the other options. You would only purchase Tesla stock if you thought that you would receive a return as large as you would have for the same level of risk on the other investments. From Tesla's perspective, this means that the company can only attract your capital if it offers an expected return high enough for you to choose it as the company that will use your money. Providing a return equal to what potential investors could expect to earn elsewhere for a similar risk is the cost a company bears in exchange for obtaining funds from investors. Just as a firm must consider the costs of electricity, raw materials, and wages when it calculates the costs of doing business, it must also consider the cost of attracting capital so that it can purchase its assets. Weights in the Capital Structure Most companies have multiple sources of capital. The firm's overall cost of capital is a weighted average of its 508 17 • How Firms Raise Capital Access for free at openstax.org