Step Description Enter Display 5 Enter interest rate or YTM 6.5 I/Y I/Y I/Y = 6.5000 6 Compute coupon payment CPT CPT PMT PMT PMT = 28.2437 Table 10.10 Calculator Steps for Computing Coupon Payment Solution: The annual coupon payment amount is $28.24. This means the coupon rate on the bond is . The Coupon Rate The coupon rate is the rate that we use to determine the amount of a bond's coupon payments. The issuer states the rate as an annual rate, even though payments may be made more frequently. Thus, for semiannual bonds, the most common type of corporate and government bond, the coupon payment is the par value of the bond multiplied by the annual coupon rate and then divided by the number of payments per year, 2. We have already seen the coupon rate. The first bond we reviewed, the 3M Co. bond, was an annual coupon bond with a coupon rate of 2.25%. Using a par value of $1,000, we determined that the annual coupon payments would be . For the Coca-Cola bond, we note from Table 10.5 that it has a coupon rate of 1% and is paid semiannually. Using a par value of $1,000, we can determine that the coupon payments would be . The Relationship of Yield to Maturity and Coupon Rate to Bond Prices The value or price of any bond has a direct relationship with the YTM and the coupon rate. • When the coupon rate of a bond exceeds the YTM, the bond sells at a premium compared to its par value. That is, market demand will push the price of the bond to an amount greater that than its face or par value. We call this kind of bond a premium bond. • When the coupon rate is less than the YTM, the bond sells at a discounted amount, or less than its par value. We refer to such a bond as a discount bond. • When the coupon rate and YTM are identical, a bond will sell at its par value. Bonds that experience this scenario in the market are referred to as par value bonds. The interest or coupon payments of a bond are determined by its coupon rate and are calculated by multiplying the face value of the bond by this coupon rate. The inverse relationship of interest rates and bond prices is an important concept for investors to know. Because interest rates fluctuate and can change significantly over time, it is important to understand how these changes will impact bond values. 10.3 Using the Yield Curve Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Use the yield curve to show the term structure of interest rates. • Describe and define changes in the yield curve shape. • Explain the importance of the yield curve shape. 296 10 • Bonds and Bond Valuation Access for free at openstax.org