If you sell all of the equity in the company for $45,614 and purchase the equipment necessary for the project for $40,000, you have $5,614 to keep as the entrepreneur who created the business. This business would be financed 100% by equity. The lack of any debt in the capital structure means the firm would have no financial leverage. The equity in a firm that has no financial leverage is called unlevered equity. The Levered Firm Next, consider borrowing some of the money that you will need to start this T-shirt business. Although the cash flows from the business are uncertain, suppose you are certain that the business will generate at least $18,000. (Perhaps you have a guaranteed order from the cycling competition sponsors.) If you borrowed $17,000 at the risk-free interest rate of 4%, you would owe to the lenders at the end of the year. Because you are certain that you will generate at least $18,000 in cash, which is greater than $17,680, you can borrow the $17,000 without any risk of defaulting. The $17,000 will not be enough to pay for all the start-up costs. You will also need to raise some capital by selling equity. Because your firm will have some debt, or financial leverage, the equity that you raise will be known as levered equity. The equity holders expect the firm to generate $52,000 in cash flows. Debt holders must be paid before equity holders, so this will leave for the shareholders. The expected future cash flows generated by the business are determined by the productivity of its assets, not the manner in which those assets are financed. It is the present value of these expected future cash flows that determines the firm's value. Thus, the firm's value in perfect capital markets will not change as a result of the company taking on leverage. LINK TO LEARNING MM Proposition I Nobel laureates Franco Modigliani and Merton Miller wrote influential papers exploring capital structure and the cost of a firm's capital. They began by considering what would occur in a perfectly competitive market. One of the assumptions of this perfect capital market is that there are no taxes. The idea that the market value of the unlevered and levered firm is the same in perfect capital markets is known in the field of finance as MM Proposition I. Visit Milken Institute's 5-Minute Finance site to explore more about Modigliani and Miller's contributions (https://openstax.org/r/Modigliani) to the understanding of capital structure. The value of your T-shirt business remains at $45,614. You can calculate the value of the levered equity as Now, shareholders are willing to pay $28,614 for ownership in this company. They expect to get $34,320 in one year in return for purchasing this equity. What discount rate does this imply? 17.4 • Capital Structure Choices 517