Figure 19.7 Example of a Sales and Collections Budget Download the spreadsheet file (https://openstax.org/r/spreadsheet-file1) containing key Chapter 19 Excel exhibits. Sales budgets "drive" the preparation of other budgets. If sales are expected to increase, purchases of inventory and some operating expenses would also increase. To meet the demand for goods and services (as defined in the sales budget), a purchases (inventory) budget would be prepared. In this example (Figure 19.8), the purchases budget shows projected purchases of inventory (merchandise) and the projected payments (also called disbursements) for each month. Cash outflows as a result of purchases often do not equal the projected purchase amount. That is because payments for purchases are usually on credit (accounts payable), and so purchases for one month typically get spread out over a period of time that encompasses the current month and the month (or months) thereafter. To keep this example simple, the assumption is that the purchases are paid for in the following month (an average days payable outstanding of 30 days). However, in other cases, payment patterns may be based on other payment periods such as 45, 60, or even 90 days, depending on the trade credit terms. Figure 19.8 Purchases Budget An operating expense budget is prepared next and is basically a prediction of the selling and administrative expenditures of the company. Notice in Figure 19.9 that in the operating expense budget, cost of goods sold (an expense) is not included, nor are noncash expenses such as depreciation. The cash outlays related to goods sold, at least in a merchandising operation, are accounted for in the purchases budget (payments for purchases of inventory.) With the sales, purchases, and operating expense budgets prepared, the cash budget can be prepared. Some of the "inputs" to the cash budget are from the sales (collections of cash), purchases (payments), and the operating expense budget (cash expenditures for selling and administrative expenses). A sample cash budget and a discussion of its preparation follows in the next section of this chapter. 586 19 • The Importance of Trade Credit and Working Capital in Planning Access for free at openstax.org