they can diversify away from it. Investors are, however, rewarded for systematic risk. To determine how much of a firm's risk is due to systematic risk, you can use Excel to calculate the stock's beta. To calculate a stock's beta, you need the monthly return for the market in addition to the monthly market return for the stock. In column B in Figure 15.6, the monthly return for SPY, the SPDR S&P 500 Trust, is recorded. SPY is an ETF that was created to mimic the performance of the S&P 500 index by State Street Global Advisors and is often used as a proxy for the overall market performance. The monthly returns for AMZN are visible in column C. It is important that these returns be lined up so that the returns for a particular month for both securities appear in the same row number. Also, you want to place the returns for SPY in the column to the left of the returns for AMZN so that when you create your graph, SPY will automatically appear on the horizontal axis. LINK TO LEARNING State Street Global Advisors You can learn more about State Street Global Advisors and its creation of the first ETF by visiting the company's history page at its website (ssga.com) (https://openstax.org/r/ssga_institutional_our-history). You will use a scatter plot to create a graph. In Excel, go to the Insert tab, and then from the Chart menu, choose the first scatter plot option. Figure 15.6 Excel Format for Calculating Beta (data source: Yahoo! Finance) Selecting the scatter plot option will result in a chart being inserted that looks like the chart in Figure 15.7. Each dot represents one month's combination of returns, with the return for SPY measured on the horizontal axis and the return for AMZN measured on the vertical axis. Consider, for example, the dot in the furthest upper right-hand section of the figure. This dot is the plot of returns for the month of April 2020, when the return for SPY was 13.36% (measured on the horizontal axis) and the return for AMZN was 26.89% (measured on the 470 15 • How to Think about Investing Access for free at openstax.org