Now, multiply the result by the price for your portion of the infinite stream: The next step is to discount the selling price of Johnson & Johnson in 10 years at 17% and then add the two values to get the stock's price. So, how do we estimate the stock's price at the end of 10 years? If we elect to sell the stock after 10 years and the company will continue to pay dividends at the same growth rate, what would a buyer be willing to pay? How could we estimate the selling price (value) of the stock at that time? We need to estimate the dividend in 10 years and assume a growth rate and the required return of the new owner at that point in time. Let's assume that the new owner also wants a 17% return and that the dividend growth rate will remain at 13.04%. We calculate the dividend in 10 years by taking the current growth rate plus one raised to the tenth power times the current dividend: We then use the dividend growth model with infinite horizon to determine the price in 10 years as follows: Your price for the stock today-given that you will receive the growing dividend stream for 10 years and sell for $258.10 in 10 years, and also given that you want a 17% return over the 10 years-is as shown below: Why did you get the same price of $60.23 for your stock with both the infinite growth model and the finite model? The reason is that the required rate of return of the stock remained at 17% (your rate) and the growth rate of the dividends remained at 13.04%. The infinite growth model gives the same price as the finite model with a future selling price as long as the required return and the growth rate are the same for all future sales of the stock. Although this point may be subtle, what we have just shown is that a stock's price is the present value of its future dividend stream. When you sell the stock, the buyer purchases the remaining dividend stream. If that individual should sell the stock in the future, the new owner would buy the remaining dividends. That will always be the case; a stock's buyer is always buying the future dividend stream. LINK TO LEARNING Determining Stock Value Using Different Scenarios This video explains methods for determining stock value (https://openstax.org/r/ explains_methods_for_determining_stock_value) using scenarios of constant dividends and scenarios of constant dividend growth. THINK IT THROUGH Nonconstant Growth Dividends One final issue to address in this section is how we price a stock when dividends are neither constant nor growing at a constant rate. This can make things a bit more complicated. When a future pattern is not an annuity or the modified annuity stream of constant growth, there is no shortcut. You have to estimate every 11.2 • Dividend Discount Models (DDMs) 339