Issuers also promise to pay bondholders periodic interest or coupon payments to compensate them for the use of their money over the term of the bond. The rate at which issuers pay investors, or the bond's stated coupon rate, is typically fixed at the time of issuance. We have also covered the concept that bond values have an inverse relationship with interest rates. As interest rates rise, bond prices fall, and when interest rates fall, bond values increase. Movement of interest rates can have a dramatic effect on a bond's value and presents the typical bondholder with a number of different financial risks that we have described in detail. Also in this chapter, we have discussed how bond values can be estimated through the use of several different factors. Prevailing interest rates are among the most critical of these, but also important are factors such as maturity periods, the taxability of bond interest, the credit standing of bond issuers, and the likelihood of bond call, or issuers paying off their debt early. When considering purchasing bonds or any such fixed-income investment, investors should remain aware that interest rates are always in a state of flux and can change at any time. The movements of bond values and bond yields will be significantly affected by these changes and can be favorable or unfavorable for any investor. 10.5 Using Spreadsheets to Solve Bond Problems Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Demonstrate bond valuations using Excel. • Demonstrate bond yield calculations using Excel. Calculating the Price (Present Value) of a Bond The following examples illustrate how Microsoft Excel can be used to calculate common bond problems. Please be sure to refer to the chapters on the time value of money for examples of using spreadsheets to solve present value problems, as these same concepts are also used in solving bond problems. You can use the following steps in Excel to determine the price or present value of a coupon bond. Suppose that a bond has a par or face value of $1,000, pays coupons semiannually at a 4% annual rate, and matures in 15 years. We can assume a YTM rate of 5%. 1. First, select Formulas from the Excel upper menu bar, and from the dialog box, select PV (see Figure 10.11). 306 10 • Bonds and Bond Valuation Access for free at openstax.org