LINK TO LEARNING Peloton and Risk An example of how news can impact the price of a stock occurred on May 5, 2021, when Peloton recalled all of its Tread+ and Tread products after the tragic death of a child and 70 injuries associated with use of its products.1 The previous day, Peloton stock traded for $96.70 per share. The stock price dropped approximately 15% when the recall was announced. The closing price for a share of Peloton on May 5 was $82.62.2 You can read the company's statement about this recall (https://openstax.org/r/ the_companys_recall) online. 15.2 Risk and Return to Multiple Assets Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain the benefits of diversification. • Describe the relationship between risk and return for large portfolios. • Compare firm-specific and systematic risk. • Discuss how portfolio size impacts risk. Diversification So far, we have looked at the return and the volatility of an individual stock. Most investors, however, own shares of stock in multiple companies. This collection of stocks is known as a portfolio. Let's explore why it is wise for investors to hold a portfolio of stocks rather than to pick just one favorite stock to own. We saw that investors who owned DAL experienced an average annual return of 20.87% but also a large standard deviation of 51.16%. Investors who used all their funds to purchase DAL stock did exceptionally well during 2012-2014. But in 2020, those investors lost almost one-third of their money as COVID-19 caused a sharp reduction in air travel worldwide. To protect against these extreme outcomes, investors practice what is called diversification, or owning a variety of stocks in their portfolios. Suppose, for example, you have saved $50,000 that you want to invest. If you purchased $50,000 of DAL stock, you would not be diversified. Your return would depend solely on the return on DAL stock. If, instead, you used $5,000 to purchase DAL stock and used the remaining $45,000 to purchase nine other stocks, you would be diversifying. Your return would depend not only on DAL's return but also on the returns of the other nine stocks in your portfolio. Investors practice diversification to manage risk. It is akin to the saying "Don't put all of your eggs in one basket." If you place all of your eggs in one basket and that basket breaks, all of your eggs will fall and crack. If you spread your eggs out across a number of baskets, it is unlikely that all of the baskets will break and all of your eggs will crack. One basket may break, and you will lose the eggs in that basket, but you will still have your other eggs. The same idea holds true for investing. If you own stock in a company that does poorly, perhaps even goes out of business, you will lose the money you placed in that particular investment. However, with a diversified portfolio, you do not lose all your money because your money is spread out across a number of different companies. 1 Trefis Team and Great Speculations. "Is Peloton's Tread+ Recall an Opportunity to Buy the Stock?" Forbes, May 7, 2021. https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2021/05/07/is-pelotons-tread-recall-an-opportunity-to-buy-the-stock/ 2 Tomi Kilgore. "Peloton Stock Sinks to 8-Month Low after 125,000 Treadmills Recalled for 'Risk of Injury or Death.'" MarketWatch. May 6, 2021. https://www.marketwatch.com/story/peloton-stock-sinks-toward-9-month-low-after-125-000-treadmills-recalled-for- risk-of-injury-or-death-11620233715 458 15 • How to Think about Investing Access for free at openstax.org