Mode Another measure of center is the mode. The mode is the most frequent value. There can be more than one mode in a data set as long as those values have the same frequency and that frequency is the highest. A data set with two modes is called bimodal. For example, assume that the weekly closing stock price for a technology stock, in dollars, is recorded for 20 consecutive weeks as follows: To find the mode, determine the most frequent score, which is 72. It occurs five times. Thus, the mode of this data set is 72. It is helpful to know that the most common closing price of this particular stock over the past 20 weeks has been $72.00. Geometric Mean The arithmetic mean, median, and mode are all measures of the center of a data set, or the average. They are all, in their own way, trying to measure the common point within the data-that which is "normal." In the case of the arithmetic mean, this is accomplished by finding the value from which all points are equal linear distances. We can imagine that all the data values are combined through addition and then distributed back to each data point in equal amounts. The geometric mean redistributes not the sum of the values but their product. It is calculated by multiplying all the individual values and then redistributing them in equal portions such that the total product remains the same. This can be seen from the formula for the geometric mean, x̃ (pronounced x-tilde): The geometric mean is relevant in economics and finance for dealing with growth-of markets, in investments, and so on. For an example of a finance application, assume we would like to know the equivalent percentage growth rate over a five-year period, given the yearly growth rates for the investment. For a five-year period, the annual rate of return for a certificate of deposit (CD) investment is as follows: 3.21%, 2.79%, 1.88%, 1.42%, 1.17%. Find the single percentage growth rate that is equivalent to these five annual consecutive rates of return. The geometric mean of these five rates of return will provide the solution. To calculate the geometric mean for these values (which must all be positive), first multiply1 the rates of return together-after adding 1 to the decimal equivalent of each interest rate-and then take the nth root of the product. We are interested in calculating the equivalent overall rate of return for the yearly rates of return, which can be expressed as 1.0321, 1.0279, 1.0188, 1.0142, and 1.0117: Based on the geometric mean, the equivalent annual rate of return for this time period is 2.09%. LINK TO LEARNING Arithmetic versus Geometric Means In this video on arithmetic versus geometric means (https://openstax.org/r/arithmetic-versus-geometric), the returns of the S&P 500 are tracked using an arithmetic mean versus a geometric mean, and the difference between these two measurements is discussed. Weighted Mean A weighted mean is a measure of the center, or average, of a data set where each data value is assigned a corresponding weight. A common financial application of a weighted mean is in determining the average price 1 In this chapter, the interpunct dot will be used to indicate the multiplication operation in formulas. 384 13 • Statistical Analysis in Finance Access for free at openstax.org