changes; • the duration of a bond will be higher when market yields are lower, all else being equal; • the duration of a bond will be higher the longer the maturity of the bond, all else being equal; and • the duration of a bond will be higher the lower the coupon rate on the bond, all else being equal. Swap-Based Hedging As the name suggests, a swap involves two parties agreeing to swap, or exchange, something. Generally, the two parties, known as counterparties, are swapping obligations to make specified payment streams. To illustrate the basics of how an interest rate swap works, let's consider two hypothetical companies, Alpha and Beta. Alpha is a strong, well-established company with a AAA (triple-A) bond rating. This means that Alpha has the highest rating a company can have. With this high rating, Alpha can borrow at relatively low interest rates. Often, companies in this situation will borrow at a floating rate. This means that their interest rate goes up and down as interest rates in the overall economy vary. The floating rate will be tied to a benchmark rate that is widely quoted in the financial press. Historically, companies have often used the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as the benchmark rate. Because published quotes for LIBOR will be phased out by 2023, firms are beginning to use alternative rates. As of yet, no single alternative has emerged as the most commonly used rate; therefore, LIBOR will be used in our example. Suppose that Alpha finds that it can borrow money at rate equal to ; thus, if LIBOR is 2.75%, the company will pay 3.0% to borrow. If the company wants to borrow at a long-term fixed rate, its cost of borrowing will be 5.0%. LINK TO LEARNING LIBOR Transition Although the basic principles of financial transactions remain the same over time, the particular financial instruments used change from time to time. Innovation, regulation, and technological advances lead to these changes in financial instruments. The use of LIBOR as a benchmark rate is winding down in the early 2020s. To find out more about this transition and how it impacts companies, visit the About LIBOR Transition (https://openstax.org/r/About_LIBOR_Transition) website. Beta has a BBB bond rating. Although this is considered a good, investment-grade rating, it is lower than the rating of Alpha. Because Beta is less creditworthy and a bit riskier than Alpha, it will have to pay a higher interest rate to borrow money. If Beta wants to borrow money at a floating rate, it will need to pay If LIBOR is 2.75%, Beta must pay 3.5% on its floating rate debt. In order for Beta to borrow at a long-term fixed rate, its cost of borrowing will be 6.75%. Let's consider how these two companies can enter into a swap in which both parties benefit. Table 20.5 summarizes the situation and the rates at which Alpha and Beta can borrow. It also illustrates a way in which an interest rate swap can benefit both Alpha and Beta. Alpha Beta Bond rating AAA BBB Floating rate Fixed rate 5 6.75 Rate company chooses Fixed at 5.0 Floating at Swap N/A N/A Beta pays Alpha fixed rate 5.5 -5.5 Table 20.5 Example of a Swap Agreement 616 20 • Risk Management and the Financial Manager Access for free at openstax.org