If, in three months, when the company receives payment in US dollars, the spot exchange rate is higher than , the company will simply exchange the US dollars for rupees at that exchange rate, allowing the put option to expire without exercising it. The payoff to the company for the option is INR -5, the premium that was paid for the option that was never used (see Figure 20.6). Figure 20.6 The Payoff to the Holder of a Put Option If, however, in three months, the spot exchange rate is anything less than , then the company will choose to exercise the option. If the spot rate is between and , the payoff for the option is negative. For example, if the spot exchange rate is , the company will exercise the option and receive three more Indian rupees per dollar than it would in the spot market. However, the company had to spend INR 5 for the option, so the payoff is INR -2. At a spot exchange rate of , the company has a zero payoff; the benefit of exercising the option, INR 5, is exactly equal to the price of purchasing the option, the premium of INR 5. If, in three months, the spot exchange rate is anything below , the payoff of the put option is positive. At the theoretical extreme, if the USD became worthless and would purchase no rupees in the spot market when the company received the dollars, the company could exercise its option and receive INR 75/USD, and its payoff would be INR 70. Now that we have considered the payoff to a purchaser of a put contract, let's consider the opposite side of the contract: the seller, or writer, of the put option. The writer of a put option is selling the right to sell dollars to the purchaser of the put option. The writer of the put option collects a premium for this. The writer of the put has no choice as to whether the put option will be exercised; the writer only has an obligation to honor the contract if the owner of the put option chooses to exercise it. The owner of the option will choose to let the option expire if the spot exchange rate is anything above . If that is the case, the writer of the put option collects the INR 5 premium for writing the put, as shown by the horizontal line in Figure 20.7. This is what the writer of the put is hoping will occur. 612 20 • Risk Management and the Financial Manager Access for free at openstax.org