20.2 Commodity Price Risk Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe commodity price risk. • Explain the use of long-term contracts as a hedge. • Explain the use vertical integration as a hedge. • Explain the use of futures contracts as a hedge. One of the most significant risks that many companies face arises from normal business operations. Companies purchase raw materials to produce the products and provide the services they sell. A change in the market price of these raw materials can significantly impact the profitability of a company. For example, Starbucks must purchase coffee beans in order to make its coffee drinks. The price of coffee beans is highly volatile. Sample prices of a pound of Arabica coffee beans over the past couple of decades are shown in Table 20.1. Over this period, the price of coffee beans ranged from a low of $0.52 per pound in the summer of 2002 to a high of over $3.00 per pound in the spring of 2011. The costs, and thus the profits, of Starbucks will vary greatly depending on if the company is paying less than $1.00 per pound for coffee or if it is paying three times that much. Date Price per Pound ($) January 1, 2000 1.09 January 1, 2004 0.74 January 1, 2008 1.39 January 1, 2012 2.41 January 1, 2016 1.46 January 1, 2020 1.50 Table 20.1 Price of Coffee in Select Years, 2000-20205 Long-Term Contracts One method of hedging the risk of volatile input prices is for a firm to enter into long-term contracts with its suppliers. Starbucks, for example, could enter into an agreement with a coffee farmer to purchase a particular quantity of coffee beans at a predetermined price over the next several years. These long-term contracts can benefit both the buyer and the seller. The buyer is concerned that rising commodity prices will increase its cost of goods sold. The seller, however, is concerned that falling commodity prices will mean lower revenue. By entering into a long-term contract, the buyer is able to lock in a price for its raw materials and the seller is able to lock in its sales price. Thus, both parties are able to reduce uncertainty. While long-term contracts reduce uncertainty about the commodity price, and thus reduce risk, there are several possible disadvantages to these types of contracts. First, both parties are exposed to the risk that the other party may default and fail to live up to the terms of the contract. Second, these contracts cannot be entered into anonymously; the parties to the contract know each other's identity. This lack of anonymity may have strategic disadvantages for some firms. Third, the value of this contract cannot be easily determined, making it difficult to track gains and losses. Fourth, canceling the contract may be difficult or even impossible. 5 Data from International Monetary Fund. "Global Price of Coffee, Other Mild Arabica (PCOFFOTMUSDM)." FRED. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, accessed August 6, 2021. https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/PCOFFOTMUSDM 602 20 • Risk Management and the Financial Manager Access for free at openstax.org