• Carrying costs: all costs of having inventory in stock, which includes storage costs (i.e., the cost of the space to store the inventory, such as a warehouse), insurance, inventory obsolescence and spoilage, and even the opportunity cost of the investment in inventory • Ordering costs: the costs of placing an order with a vendor; the cost of a purchase and managing the payment process • Stockout costs: an opportunity cost incurred when a customer order cannot be filled and the customer goes elsewhere for the product; lost revenue Minimizing total inventory costs is a combination of many strategies, the scope and complexity of which are beyond the scope of this text. Concepts such as just-in-time (JIT) inventory practices and economic order quantity (EOQ) are tools used by inventory managers, both of which help keep a company lean (minimizing inventory) while making sure the inventory resources are in place in time to complete the sale. Benefit of Holding Inventory Brick-and-mortar stores need goods in stock so that the customer can see and touch the product and be able to acquire it when they need it. Customers are disappointed if they cannot see and touch the item or if they find out upon arrival at the store that it is out of stock. Customers of all kinds don't want to wait for the delivery of a purchase. We have become accustomed to Amazon orders being delivered to the door the next day. Product fulfillment and availability is important. Inventory must be in stock, or sales will be lost. In manufacturing, the inventory of materials and component parts must be in place at the start of the value chain (the conversion process), and finished goods need to be ready to meet scheduled shipments. Holding sufficient inventory meets customer demand, whether it is products on the shelves or in the warehouse that are ready to move through the supply chain and into the hands of the customer. 19.6 Using Excel to Create the Short-Term Plan By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Create a one-year budget. • Create a cash budget. A cash budget is a tool of cash management and therefore assists financial managers in the planning and control of a critical asset. The cash budget, like any other budget, looks to the future. It projects the cash flows into and out of the company. The budgeting process of a company is a really an integrated process-it links a series of budgets together so that company objectives can be achieved. For example, in a manufacturing company, a series of budgets such as those for sales, production, purchases, materials, overhead, selling and administrative costs, and planned capital expenditures would need to be prepared before cash needs (cash budget) can be predicted. Just as you might budget your earnings (salary, business income, investment income, etc.) to see if you will be able to cover your expected living expenses and planned savings amounts, to be successful and to increase the odds that sufficient cash will be available in the months ahead, financial managers prepare cash budgets to • meet payrolls; • allocate dollars for contingencies and emergencies; • analyze if planned collections and disbursements policies and procedures result in adequate cash balances; and • plan for borrowings on lines of credit and short-term loans that might be needed to balance the cash budget. A cash budget is a model that often goes through several iterations before managers can approve it as the 584 19 • The Importance of Trade Credit and Working Capital in Planning Access for free at openstax.org