inventory: . THINK IT THROUGH Quick Ratio A company's current assets total $2,000,000, but $500,000 of that is inventory and the current liabilities total $1,000,000. What is the quick ratio, and what does it mean? Solution: The quick ratio would be and would indicate a smaller cushion of net working capital. THINK IT THROUGH Cash Ratio The cash ratio is even more conservative in that it presents a picture of liquidity by excluding all current assets except cash and marketable securities. A company's total current assets are $2,000,000, but only $1,100,000 of the current assets consist of cash and marketable securities. Assuming $1,000,000 of current liabilities, what would be the cash ratio and what does it mean? Solution: The cash ratio would be and the amount of cash is enough to pay the current bills by $100,000. Working capital ratios, like any financial ratio, are most valuable when examined in light of trends and in comparison to industry/peer averages. For example, a deteriorating current ratio over several quarters (a decline in the company's current ratio) could indicate a reduced ability to pay bills. Working capital ratios are also compared to industry averages, which are available in databases produced by such financial publishers as Dun & Bradstreet, Dow Jones Company, and the Risk Management Association (RMA). These information services are available via subscriptions and through many libraries. For example, if a company's current ratio is 0.9 while the industry average is 2.0, then the company is less liquid than the average company in its industry and strategies, and techniques need to be considered to change things and to better compete with peer groups. Industry averages can be aspirational, motivating management to set liquidity goals and best practices for working capital management. It is common to think about working capital with a simple assumption: current assets are being "financed" by current liabilities. However, such an assumption may be an oversimplification. Some level of current assets is often necessary to meet longer-term obligations, and in that way, you could think of some amount of current assets as a permanent based of working capital that may need to be financed with longer-term sources of capital. Think of a company with seasonal business. During busy times, more working capital will be needed than during certain other portions of the year, such as less busy times. But there will always be some level-a permanent base-of working capital needed. Think of it this way: the total working capital of many companies will ebb and flow depending on many variables such as the operating cycle, production needs, and the growth of revenue. Therefore, working capital can be thought of as having a permanent base that is always needed 19.1 • What Is Working Capital? 569