Net Debt Many practitioners use net debt rather than total debt when calculating the weights for WACC. Net debt is the amount of debt that would remain if a company used all of its liquid assets to pay off as much debt as possible. Net debt is calculated as the firm's total debt, both short-term and long-term, minus the firm's cash and cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are current assets that can quickly and easily be converted into cash, such as Treasury bills, commercial paper, and marketable securities. Consider, for example, Apple, which had $112.436 billion in total debt in 2020. The company also had $38.016 billion in cash and cash equivalents. This meant that the net debt for Apple was only $74.420 billion. If Apple used all of its cash and cash equivalents to pay debt, it would be left with $74.420 billion in debt.2 Cash and cash equivalents can be viewed as negative debt. For firms with relatively low levels of cash, this adjustment will not have a large impact on the overall WACC estimate. However, the adjustment can be important for firms that hold substantial cash reserves. 17.4 Capital Structure Choices By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Distinguish between a levered and an unlevered firm. • Explain why the choice of capital structure does not impact the value of a firm in perfect financial markets. • Calculate the interest tax shield. • Explain how the interest tax shield encourages the use of leverage. So far, we have taken the company's capital structure as given. Each firm's capital structure, however, is a result of intentional decisions made by the financial managers of the company. We now turn our attention to the issues that financial managers consider when making these decisions. The Unlevered Firm Let's begin our discussion of capital structure choices by exploring the financing decisions you would face if you were to start a T-shirt business. Suppose that your hometown will host an international cycling competition. The competition itself will last for a month; cyclists will arrive early to train in the local climate. News coverage will be significant, meaning a lot of media personnel will be visiting your area. In addition to fans attending the event, it is expected that tourism will increase over the next year as recreational cyclists will want to ride the route of the professional race. You decide to operate a business for one year that will sell T- shirts highlighting this event. You will need to make an up-front investment of $40,000 to start the business. You estimate that you will generate a cash flow of $52,000, after you cover all of your operating costs, at the end of next year. You know that these profits are risky; you think a 10% risk premium is appropriate for the level of riskiness of the business. If the risk-free rate is 4%, this means that the appropriate discount rate for you to use is 14%. The value of this business opportunity is This looks as if it will be a profitable business that should be undertaken. However, you do not have the $40,000 for the up-front investment and will need to raise it. First, consider raising money solely by selling ownership shares to your family and friends. How much would those shares be worth? The value of the stock would be equal to the present value of the expected future cash flows. The potential stockholders would expect to receive $45,614 in one year. If they agree with you that the riskiness of this T-shirt business warrants a discount rate of 14%, then they will value the stock at 2 "Historical Data." Apple Inc. (AAPL). Yahoo! Finance, accessed October 29, 2021. https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/AAPL/history/ 516 17 • How Firms Raise Capital Access for free at openstax.org