that rates on five-year securities are lower than those of one-year and even three-month securities. Figure 10.9 Elements of Inversion in Recent Yield Curves (data source: US Department of the Treasury, Resource Center, Daily Treasury Yield Curve Rates) This inverted yield curve signaled the beginning of a recessionary period in the United States, which was compounded by the COVID-19 pandemic and the closing of many restaurants and businesses. In March and April 2020, the US economy experienced a significant decline. Most economic indicators dropped so badly that the National Bureau of Economic Research's Business Cycle Dating Committee, the US agency that officially declares recessions, was required to intervene.3 The recession declaration process by the committee is completed over the course of four months, but in this instance, it only took a total of 15 weeks for the committee to make its declaration. This remains the fastest declaration by the committee on record since the founding of the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) in 1978.4 In July 2021, the committee declared that the economy had reached a trough in April 2020, marking the end of the recession of the early 2020s and making it the shortest US recession on record as well as the most quickly identified one.5 (sources: www.nytimes.com/2019/11/08/business/yield-curve-recession-indicator.html; www.nber.org/ news/business-cycle-dating-committee-announcement-june-8-2020; fredblog.stlouisfed.org/2020/11/are- we-still-in-a-recession/) A flat shape for the yield curve occurs when there is not a great deal of difference between short-term and long-term yields (see Figure 10.10). A flat curve is usually not long lasting and is often observed when the curve is transitioning between a normal and an inverted shape, or vice versa. A flat yield curve has also been observed as a result of low interest rate levels or some types of unconventional monetary policy. 3 National Bureau of Economic Research. "Business Cycle Dating Committee Announcement June 8, 2020." NBER News. 4 Jeffrey Frankel. "The US Is Officially in Recession Thanks to the Corona Virus Crisis." The Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Harvard Kennedy School, June 16, 2020. https://www.belfercenter.org/publication/us-officially-recession- thanks-corona-virus-crisis 5 National Bureau of Economic Research. "Business Cycle Dating Committee Announcement July 19, 2021." NBER News. July 19, 2021. https://www.nber.org/news/business-cycle-dating-committee-announcement-july-19-2021 300 10 • Bonds and Bond Valuation Access for free at openstax.org