revenue (in thousands of dollars). Let's assume the Fortune 500 company would like to predict the monthly revenue for a month where it plans to spend $80,000 for advertising. To determine the estimate of monthly revenue, let in the regression equation and calculate a corresponding value for ŷ: This predicted value of y indicates that the forecasted revenue would be $14,320,700, assuming an advertising spend of $80,000. • Excel can provide this forecasted value directly using the =FORECAST command. • To use this command, enter the value of the independent variable x, followed by the cell range for the y-data and the cell range for the x-data, as follows: =FORECAST(X_VALUE, Range of Y-DATA, Range of X-DATA) • Using this Excel command, the forecasted value for the revenue is $14,320.52 when the advertising spend is $80 (in thousands of dollars) (see Figure 14.9). (Note: The discrepancy in the more precise Excel result and the formula result is due to rounding in interim calculations.) Figure 14.9 Revenue versus Advertising for Fortune 500 Company ($000s) Showing FORECAST Command in Excel A word of caution when predicting values for y: it is generally recommended to only predict values for y using values of x that are in the original range of the data collection. As an example, assume we have developed a linear model to predict the height of male children based on their age. We have collected data for the age range from years old to years old, and we have confirmed that the scatter plot shows a linear trend and that the correlation is significant. It would be erroneous to use this model to predict the height of a 25-year-old male since is outside the range of the x-data, which was from 3 to 10 years old. The reason this is not recommended is that a linear pattern cannot be assumed to continue beyond the x-value of 10 years old unless some data collection has occurred at ages greater than 10 to confirm that the linear pattern is consistent for x-values beyond 10 years 14.5 • Predictions and Prediction Intervals 435