Year 0 1 2 Cash Flow ($Millions) (350) 950 (620) Table 16.8 The NPV profile for this project looks like Figure 16.3. The NPV is negative at low interest rates, becomes positive at higher interest rates, and then turns negative again as the interest rate continues to rise. Because the NPV profile line crosses the horizontal axis twice, there are two IRRs. In other words, there are two interest rates at which NPV equals zero. Figure 16.3 NPV Profile Graph for a Project with Two IRRs Reinvestment Rate Assumption. The IRR assumes that the cash flows are reinvested at the internal rate of return when they are received. This is a disadvantage of the IRR method. The firm may not be able to find any other projects with returns equal to a high-IRR project, so the company may not be able to reinvest at the IRR. The reinvestment rate assumption becomes problematic when a company has several acceptable projects and is attempting to rank the projects. We will look more closely at the issues that can arise when considering mutually exclusive projects later in this chapter. If a company is simply deciding whether to accept a single project, the reinvestment assumption limitation is not relevant. Overlooking Differences in Scale. Another disadvantage of using the IRR method to choose among various acceptable projects is that it ignores differences in scale. The IRR converts the cash flows to percentages and ignores differences in the size or scale of projects. Issues that occur when comparing projects of different scales are covered later in this chapter. 16.4 Alternative Methods Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Calculate profitability index. • Calculate discounted payback period. • Calculate modified internal rate of return. Profitability Index (PI) The profitability index (PI) uses the same inputs as the NPV calculation, but it converts the results to a ratio. The numerator is the present value of the benefits of doing a project. The denominator is the present value of 488 16 • How Companies Think about Investing Access for free at openstax.org