analysis generates a linear equation where the sum of the squared residuals is minimized. This analysis is referred to as the method of least squares. The result is that the analysis generates a linear equation that is the "best fit" to the points on the scatter plot, in the sense that the line minimizes the differences between the predicted values and observed values for y. THINK IT THROUGH Calculating a Residual Suppose that the chief financial officer of a corporation has created a linear model for the relationship between the company stock and interest rates. When interest rates are at 5%, the company stock has a value of $94. Using the linear model, when interest rates are at 5%, the model predicts the value of the company stock to be $99. Calculate the residual for this data point. Solution: A residual is the difference between an observed y-value and the predicted y-value obtained from the linear regression equation The goal in the regression analysis is to determine the coefficients a and b in the following regression equation: Once the (x, y) has been collected, the slope (b) and y-intercept (a) can be calculated using the following formulas: where n refers to the number of data pairs and indicates sum of the x-values. Notice that the formula for the y-intercept requires the use of the slope result (b), and thus the slope should be calculated first and the y-intercept should be calculated second. When making predictions for y, it is always important to plot a scatter diagram first. If the scatter plot indicates that there is a linear relationship between the variables, then it is reasonable to use a best-fit line to make predictions for y, given x within the domain of x-values in the sample data, but not necessarily for x-values outside that domain. Note: Computer spreadsheets, statistical software, and many calculators can quickly calculate the best-fit line and create the graphs. The calculations tend to be tedious if done by hand. Assumptions for Linear Regression Testing the significance of the correlation coefficient requires that certain assumptions about the data are satisfied. The premise of this test is that the data are a sample of observed points taken from a larger population. We have not examined the entire population because it is not possible or feasible to do so. We are examining the sample to draw a conclusion about whether the linear relationship that we see between x and y in the sample data provides strong enough evidence that we can conclude that there is a linear relationship 426 14 • Regression Analysis in Finance Access for free at openstax.org