5. Westland Manufacturing spends $20,000 to update the lighting in its factory to more energy-efficient LED fixtures. This will save the company $4,000 per year in electricity costs. The company estimates that these fixtures will last for 10 years. If the company's cost of funds is 8%, what is the PI of this project? 6. Westland Manufacturing spends $20,000 to update the lighting in its factory to more energy-efficient LED fixtures. This will save the company $4,000 per year in electricity costs. The company estimates that these fixtures will last for 10 years. If the company's cost of funds is 8%, what is the modified IRR of this project? 7. Westland Manufacturing spends $20,000 to update the lighting in its factory to more energy-efficient LED fixtures. This will save the company $4,000 per year in electricity costs. The company estimates that these fixtures will last for 10 years. If the company's cost of funds is 8%, what is the discounted payback period of this project? 8. Holiday Hotels is considering two different floorings to use in its buildings. The less expensive tile will need to be replaced every five years. The more durable, more expensive tile will need to be replaced every eight years. To use the replacement chain approach to compare these two projects, how many times would you have to assume each type of tile would be replaced? 9. You will be living in your college town for two more years. You are considering purchasing a townhouse that will cost you $250,000 today. You estimate that if you do, your expenses for each of the next two years will be $6,000 less than if you rented an apartment. You think that you would be able to lease the townhouse to another college student afterward for $12,000 per year and that your taxes, maintenance, and other expenses for the townhouse would be $5,000 per year. You expect to lease the townhouse for five years before you sell it, and you expect to be able to sell the townhouse for $275,000. Use Excel to create an NPV profile for this undertaking. If it will cost you 3% to borrow money, should you buy the townhouse? What if it will cost you 8% to borrow money? Video Activity Calculating NPV and IRR Click to view content (https://openstax.org/r/CFA-Level-I) Businesses use NPV and IRR to determine whether or not a project will add value for shareholders. Watch this CFA® Level I Corporate Finance video to learn more. Working along with the video, you will gain practice in using your financial calculator to calculate IRR. 1. According to the video, how should a company use NPV and IRR to decide whether a project should be undertaken? 2. In the video, Trim Corp. is considering a project that is expected to have cash inflows of $350, $250, and $150 in years 1, 2, and 3, respectively. What do you think would happen to the NPV of the project if the company expected the same cash flows, but in reverse order? In other words, what do you think would happen to the NPV if the $150 were the cash inflow of year 1, $250 were the cash inflow for year 2, and $350 were the cash inflow for year 3? Using the same discount rate as in the video, 25%, calculate the NPV for the project with this string of cash outflows. Was the outcome what you thought it would be? The Tokyo Olympics Click to view content (https://openstax.org/r/tokyo-olympics) The capital investment a city must undertake to host the Olympic Games is massive. Learn more about the capital investments and expenses Tokyo faced as host of the 2020 Summer Olympics and how it was impacted by a global pandemic by watching this video, How the Tokyo Olympics Became the Most Expensive Summer Games Ever. 3. Given the costs discussed in the video, create an Excel spreadsheet to estimate the NPV and IRR of hosting 504 16 • Video Activity Access for free at openstax.org