strongly correlated than stocks that are in much different industries. During the 2011-2020 time period, the correlation coefficient for DAL and LUV was 0.87, the correlation coefficient for DAL and XOM was 0.35, and the correlation coefficient for DAL and CVS was 0.79. Combining stocks that are not perfectly positively correlated in a portfolio decreases risk. Notice that investors who owned DAL and LUV from 2011 to 2020 would have had a lower portfolio standard deviation, but not much lower, than investors who just owned DAL. Because the correlation coefficient is less than one, the standard deviation fell. However, because the two stocks are in the same industry and exposed to many of the same economic issues, the correlation coefficient is relatively high, and combining those two stocks provides only a small decrease in risk. This is because, as airlines, DAL and LUV face many of the same market conditions. In years when the economy is strong, the weather is good, fuel prices are low, and people are traveling a lot, both companies will do well. When something such as bad weather conditions reduces the amount of air travel for several weeks, both companies are harmed. By holding LUV in addition to DAL, investors can reduce exposure to risk that is specific to DAL (perhaps a problem that DAL has with its reservation system), but they do not reduce exposure to the risk associated with the airline industry (perhaps rising jet fuel prices). DAL and LUV tend to experience positive returns in the same years and negative returns in the same years. On the other hand, investors who added XOM to their portfolio saw a significantly lower standard deviation than those who held just DAL. In years when jet fuel prices rise, harming the profits of both DAL and LUV, XOM is likely to see high profits. Diversifying a portfolio across firms that are less correlated will reduce the standard deviation of the portfolio more. LINK TO LEARNING How to Build a Diversified Portfolio TV personality, former hedge fund manager, and author Jim Cramer encourages investors to build a diversified portfolio, having no more than 20% of a portfolio in one sector.3 Watch this CNBC video (https://openstax.org/r/CNBC_video) to learn more about how he suggests investors can build a diversified portfolio by purchasing five to 10 stocks. Portfolio Size and Risk As you add more stocks to a portfolio, the volatility, or standard deviation, of the portfolio decreases. The volatility of individual assets becomes less and less important. As we discussed earlier, the risk that is associated with events related to a particular company is called firm-specific risk, or unsystematic, risk. Examples of unsystematic risk would include a company facing a product liability lawsuit, a company inventing a new product, or accounting irregularities being detected. Holding a portfolio of stocks means that if one company you have invested in goes out of business because of poor management, you do not lose all your savings because some of your money is invested in other companies. Portfolio diversification protects you from being significantly impacted by unsystematic risk. However, there is a level below which the portfolio risk does not drop, no matter how diversified the portfolio becomes. The risk that never goes away is known as systematic risk. Systematic risk is the risk of holding the market portfolio. We have talked about reasons why a firm's returns might be volatile; for example, the firm discovering a new technology or having a product liability lawsuit brought against it will impact that firm specifically. There are also events that broadly impact the stock market. Changes in the Federal Reserve Bank's monetary policy and 3 Abigail Stevenson. "Jim Cramer Shares His #1 Rule for Investing." Make It. CNBC, March 15, 2016. https://www.cnbc.com/2016/03/ 03/cramer-forget-sectors-a-better-way-to-diversify.html 460 15 • How to Think about Investing Access for free at openstax.org