correlation the measure of association between two numeric variables correlation coefficient a measure of the strength and direction of the linear relationship between two variables linear correlation a measure of the association between two variables that exhibit an approximate straight- line fit when plotted on a scatter plot method of least squares a mathematical method to generate a linear equation that is the "best fit" to the points on the scatter plot in the sense that the line minimizes the differences between the predicted values and observed values for y prediction a forecast for the dependent variable based on a specific value of the independent variable generated using the linear model residual the difference between an observed y-value and the predicted y-value obtained from the linear regression equation scatter plot (scatter diagram) graphical display that shows values of the independent variable plotted on the x-axis and values of the dependent variable plotted on the y-axis Multiple Choice 1. Two correlation coefficients are compared: Correlation Coefficient A is 0.83. Correlation Coefficient B is . Which correlation coefficient represents the stronger linear relationship? a. Correlation Coefficient A b. Correlation Coefficient B c. equal strength d. not enough information to determine 2. A data set containing 10 pairs of (x, y) data points is analyzed, and the correlation coefficient is calculated to be 0.58. Does this value of indicate a significant or nonsignificant correlation? a. significant b. nonsignificant c. neither significant nor nonsignificant d. not enough information to determine 3. A linear regression model is developed, and for , the corresponding predicted y-value is 22.7. The actual observed value for is . Is the residual for this data point positive, negative, or zero? a. positive b. negative c. zero d. not enough information to determine 4. A linear model is developed for the relationship between salary of finance professionals and years of experience. The data was collected based on years of experience ranging from 1 to 15. Assuming the correlation is significant, should the linear model be used to predict the salary for a person with 25 years of experience? a. It is acceptable to predict the salary for a person with 25 years of experience. b. A linear model cannot be created for these two variables. c. It is not recommended to predict the salary for a person with 25 years of experience. d. There is not enough information to determine the answer. 5. Which of the following is the best interpretation for the slope of the linear regression model? a. The slope is the expected mean value of y when the x-variable is equal to zero. b. The slope indicates the change in y for every unit increase in x. 14 • Multiple Choice 443