common-size analysis, and using what we know about the company and its environment to create a full set of pro forma (forward-looking or forecasted) financial statements. Forecast the Income Statement To arrive at a fully forecasted income statement, we use historical income statements, common-size income statements, and any additional information we have about future sales and costs, such as the effects of the economy and competition. As we saw earlier in the chapter, we begin with forecasted sales because they are the basis for many of the forecasted costs. Let's begin with the sales forecast for Clear Lake Sporting Goods that we saw earlier in the chapter, in Figure 18.9, and use it along with the prior year income statement by month shown in Figure 18.12. We will consider other data we have about the business to begin creating a full income statement (see Figure 18.13). Figure 18.12 Prior Year Monthly Income Statement by Month The first two key points regarding product lines have already been built into the sales forecast. Notice that the cost of goods sold was 50% in the prior year. However, based on possible future legislation, to be conservative, we should increase the cost of goods sold by 2% in the last quarter of the year. Thus, we will forecast cost of goods sold at 50% of sales in the first nine months and increase it to 52% in the last three months of the year. Rent is a fixed cost that historically amounts to $458 per month. However, we know that the landlord is increasing rent by $50 starting on July 1. Thus, we will forecast rent at the same fixed cost of $458 per month for the first six months and increase it to $508 per month for the second half of the year. Depreciation, also a fixed cost, was historically $300 per month. However, we know that depreciation expense will go down by $25 beginning in April. Thus, we forecast depreciation at $300 for the first three months and at $275 for the last 9 months. Salaries expense has historically been $450 per month. However, we know that the company is implementing a new compensation program on January 1 that will increase salaries expense by 4% ($18). Thus, we will forecast salaries for the whole year at $468. Utilities expense seems to vary somewhat by sales from month to month, as shops are open longer hours during their busy season. However, the total utilities expense is not expected to change for the coming year. Thus, the forecast for utilities expense remains at $2,500, broken down by month as a percentage of sales. Interest expense is a fixed cost and isn't anticipated to change. Thus, the same $167 interest expense per month is forecast for the coming year. 18.4 • Generating the Complete Forecast 547