designed to meet anticipated capital requirements so that the firm could expand how and when it needed to. Bacon Signs' ability to manufacture and deliver a high-quality product at a good price was the true value of the firm. However, without the planning and ability to raise capital facilitated by the financing plan, the firm would not have been able to act on its strengths at the critical moment. Financing was the key to expansion and financial stability for the firm.1 In this book, we demonstrate that business finance is about developing and understanding the tools that help people make consistently good and repeatable decisions. 1.1 What Is Finance? Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the main areas in finance. • Explain the importance of studying finance. • Discuss the concepts of risk and return. Definition of Finance Finance is the study of the management, movement, and raising of money. The word finance can be used as a verb, such as when the First National Bank agrees to finance your home mortgage loan. It can also be used as a noun referring to an entire industry. At its essence, the study of finance is about understanding the uses and sources of cash, as well as the concept of risk-reward trade-off. Finance is also a tool that can help us be better decision makers. Basic Areas in Finance Finance is divided into three primary areas in the domestic market: business finance, investments, and financial markets and institutions (see Figure 1.2). We look at each here in turn. Figure 1.2 The Three Basic Areas of Study in Finance Business Finance Business finance looks at how managers can apply financial principles to maximize the value of a firm in a risky environment. Businesses have many stakeholders. In the case of corporations, the shareholders own the company, and they hire managers to run the company with the intent to maximize shareholder wealth. Consequently, all management decisions should run through the filter of these questions: "How does this decision impact the wealth of the shareholders?" and "Is this the best decision to be made for shareholders?" In business finance, managers focus on three broad areas (see Figure 1.3). 1 Dun & Bradstreet. "Bacon Signs, Inc." D&B Business Directory. https://www.dnb.com/business-directory/company- profiles.bacon_signs_inc.90df737e33956dd7c76717a20e9d56ad.html#financials-anchor 8 1 • Introduction to Finance Access for free at openstax.org