passage of time, although it can be used in other applications. Typical questions may be, What is the probability that some event will occur between x1 hours and x2 hours? or What is the probability that the event will take more than x1 hours to perform? In these examples, the random variable x equals either the time between events or the passage of time to complete an action (e.g., wait on a customer). The probability density function is given by where is the historical average of the values of the random variable (e.g., the historical average waiting time). This probability density function has a mean and standard deviation of . To determine probabilities associated with the exponential distribution, we find specific areas under the exponential distribution curve. The following formula can be used to calculate the area under the exponential curve to the left of a certain value: THINK IT THROUGH Calculating Probability At a financial company, the mean time between incoming phone calls is 45 seconds, and the time between phone calls follows an exponential distribution, where the time is measured in minutes. Calculate the probability of having 2 minutes or less between phone calls. Solution: To calculate the probability, find the area under the curve to the left of 1 minute. The mean time is given as 45 seconds, which is the same as 0.75 minutes. The probability can then be calculated as follows: 13.5 Probability Distributions By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Calculate portfolio weights in an investment. • Calculate and interpret the expected values. • Apply the normal distribution to characterize average and standard deviation in financial contexts. Calculate Portfolio Weights In many financial analyses, the weightings by asset category in a portfolio are a key index used to assess if the portfolio is meeting allocation metrics. For example, an investor approaching retirement age may wish to shift assets in a portfolio to more conservative and lower-volatility investments. Weightings can be calculated in several different ways-for example, based on individual stocks in a portfolio or on various sectors in a portfolio. Weightings can also be calculated based on number of shares or the value of shares of a stock. To calculate a weighting in a portfolio based on value, take the value of the particular investment and divide it by the total value of the overall portfolio. As an example, consider an individual's retirement account for which the desired portfolio weighting is determined to be 40% stocks, 50% bonds, and 10% cash equivalents. Table 13.7 shows the current assets in the individual's portfolio, broken out according to stocks, bonds, and cash equivalents. 396 13 • Statistical Analysis in Finance Access for free at openstax.org