old. Generating Prediction Intervals One important value of an estimated regression equation is its ability to predict the effects on y of a change in one or more values of the independent variables. The value of this is obvious. Careful policy cannot be made without estimates of the effects that may result. Indeed, it is the desire for particular results that drive the formation of most policy. Regression models can be, and have been, invaluable aids in forming such policies. Remember that point estimates do not carry a particular level of probability, or level of confidence, because points have no "width" above which there is an area to measure. There are actually two different approaches to the issue of developing estimates of changes in the independent variable (or variables) on the dependent variable. The first approach wishes to measure the expected mean value of y from a specific change in the value of x. The second approach to estimate the effect of a specific value of x on y treats the event as a single experiment: you choose x and multiply it times the coefficient, and that provides a single estimate of y. Because this approach acts as if there were a single experiment, the variance that exists in the parameter estimate is larger than the variance associated with the expected value approach. The conclusion is that we have two different ways to predict the effect of values of the independent variable(s) on the dependent variable, and thus we have two different intervals. Both are correct answers to the question being asked, but there are two different questions. To avoid confusion, the first case where we are asking for the expected value of the mean of the estimated y is called a confidence interval. The second case, where we are asking for the estimate of the impact on the dependent variable y of a single experiment using a value of x, is called the prediction interval. The prediction interval for an individual y for can be calculated as where se is the standard deviation of the error term, sx is the standard deviation of the x-variable, and is the critical value of the t-distribution at the confidence level. Tabulated values of the t-distribution are available in online references such as the Engineering Statistics Handbook (https://openstax.org/r/engineering_handbook). The mathematical computations for prediction intervals are complex, and usually the calculations are performed using software. The formula above can be implemented in Excel to create a 95% prediction interval for the forecast for monthly revenue when is spent on monthly advertising. Figure 14.10 shows the detailed calculations in Excel to arrive at a 95% prediction interval of (13,270.95, 15,370.09) for the monthly revenue. (The commands refer to the Excel data table shown in Figure 14.9.) 436 14 • Regression Analysis in Finance Access for free at openstax.org