So, we end up with a total current fair value of Lore Ltd. stock of $291.44 (due to Excel's rounding), although the sum can also be calculated as shown below: LINK TO LEARNING Determining Stock Value Take a few minutes to review this video, which covers methods used to determine stock value (https://openstax.org/r/covers_methods_used_to_determine_stock_value) when dividend growth is nonconstant. Advantages and Limitations of DDMs Some of the primary advantages of DDMs are their basis in the sound logic of present value concepts, their consistency, and the implication that companies that pay dividends tend to be mature and stable entities. Also, because the model is essentially a mathematical formula, there is little room for misinterpretation or subjectivity. As a result of these advantages, DDMs are a very popular form of stock evaluation that most analysts show faith in. Because dividends are paid in cash, companies may keep making their dividend payments even when doing so is not in their best long-term interests. They may not want to manipulate dividend payments, as this can directly lead to stock price volatility. Rather, they may manipulate dividend payments in the interest of buoying up their stock price. To further illustrate limitations of DDMs, let's examine the Concepts in Practice case. CONCEPTS IN PRACTICE Limitations of DDMs A major limitation of the dividend discount model is that it cannot be used to value companies that do not pay dividends. This is becoming a growing trend, particularly for young high-tech companies. Warren Buffett, CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, has stated that companies are usually better off if they take their excess funds and reinvest them into infrastructure, evolving technologies, and other profitable ventures. The payment of dividends to shareholders is "almost a last resort for corporate management,"1 says Buffett, and cash balances should be invested in "projects to become more efficient, expand territorially, extend and improve product lines or . . . otherwise widen the economic moat separating the company from its competitors."2 Berkshire follows this practice of reinvesting cash rather than paying dividends, as do tech companies such as Amazon, Google, and Biogen.3 So, rather than receiving cash dividends, stockholders of these companies are rewarded by seeing stock price appreciation in their investments and ultimately large capital gains when they finally decide to sell their shares. The sensitivity of assumptions is also a drawback of using DDMs. The fair price of a stock can be highly sensitive to growth rates and the required rates of return demanded by investors. A single percentage point change in either of these two factors can have a dramatic impact on a company's stock, potentially changing it by as much as 10 to 20%. 1 Dan Caplinger. "Why Don't These Winning Stocks Pay Dividends?" The Motley Fool. Updated October 3, 2018. https://www.fool.com/investing/general/2015/03/01/why-dont-these-winning-stocks-pay-dividends.aspx 2 The Motley Fool. "Why Warren Buffet's Berkshire Hathaway Won't Pay a Dividend in 2015." Nasdaq. November 16, 2014. https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/why-warren-buffetts-berkshire-hathaway-wont-pay-dividend-2015-2014-11-16. 3 Caplinger, "Why Don't These Winning Stocks Pay Dividends?" The Motley Fool. 332 11 • Stocks and Stock Valuation Access for free at openstax.org