on advertising and the monthly revenue for a Fortune 500 company. After collecting (x, y) data for a certain time period, the company determines the regression equation is of the form where x represents the monthly amount spent on advertising (in thousands of dollars) and represents the monthly revenues for the company (in thousands of dollars). A scatter plot of the (x, y) data is shown in Figure 14.4. Figure 14.4 Scatter Plot of Revenue versus Advertising for a Fortune 500 Company ($000s) The Fortune 500 company would like to predict the monthly revenue if its executives decide to spend $150,000 in advertising next month. To determine the estimate of monthly revenue, let in the regression equation and calculate a corresponding value for : This predicted value of y indicates that the anticipated revenue would be $18,646,700, given the advertising spend of $150,000. Notice that from past data, there may have been a month where the company actually did spend $150,000 on advertising, and thus the company may have an actual result for the monthly revenue. This actual, or observed, amount can be compared to the prediction from the linear regression model to calculate a residual. A residual is the difference between an observed y-value and the predicted y-value obtained from the linear regression equation. As an example, assume that in a previous month, the actual monthly revenue for an advertising spend of $150,000 was $19,200,000, and thus . The residual for this data point can be calculated as follows: Notice that residuals can be positive, negative, or zero. If the observed y-value exactly matches the predicted y-value, then the residual will be zero. If the observed y-value is greater than the predicted y-value, then the residual will be a positive value. If the observed y-value is less than the predicted y-value, then the residual will be a negative value. When formulating the linear regression line of best fit to the points on the scatter plot, the mathematical 14.2 • Linear Regression Analysis 425