capital structure the percentages of a company's assets that are financed by debt capital, preferred stock capital, and common stock capital conversion price the face value of a convertible bond divided by its conversion ratio conversion ratio the number of shares of common stock receivable for each convertible bond that is converted convertible bonds bonds that can be converted into a fixed number of shares of common stock upon maturity financial distress when a firm has trouble meeting debt obligations financial leverage the debt used in a company's capital structure flotation costs costs involved in the issuing and placing of new securities interest tax shield the reduction in taxes paid because interest payments on debt are a tax-deductible expense; calculated as the corporate tax rate multiplied by interest payments levered equity equity in a firm that has debt outstanding net debt a company's total debt minus any cash or risk-free assets the company holds preferred stock equity capital that has a fixed dividend; preferred shareholders fall in between debt holders and common stockholders in the order of claimants trade-off theory a theory stating that the total value of a levered company is the value of the firm without leverage plus the value of the interest tax shield less financial distress costs unlevered equity equity in a firm that has no debt outstanding weighted average cost of capital (WACC) the average of a firm's debt and equity costs of capital, weighted by the fractions of the firm's value that correspond to debt and equity CFA Institute This chapter supports some of the Learning Outcome Statements (LOS) in this CFA® Level I Study Session (https://openstax.org/r/CFA-Level-I-Study). Reference with permission of CFA Institute. Multiple Choice 1. Sandage Auto Parts has debt outstanding with a market value of $2 million. The company's common stock has a book value of $3 million and a market value of $8 million. What weight is equity in Sandage's capital structure? a. 11% b. 20% c. 60% d. 80% 2. The capital structure of a company refers to ________. a. whether the company purchases assets or liabilities with its equity b. the proportion of debt and equity the company uses in financing is assets c. the ability of the company to use its assets to generate equity for the owners d. whether the company uses short-term assets or long-term assets to create its product 3. Which of the following should be used when calculating the weights for a company's capital structure? a. Book values b. Current market values c. Historic accounting values d. Par and face values 4. Two methods for estimating a company's cost of common stock capital are ________. 530 17 • CFA Institute Access for free at openstax.org