d. states the date on which a trade will take place, but the price for the trade will be determined at the time the trade occurs 12. Which of the following is a measure of interest rate risk? a. LIBOR b. Duration c. Translation exposure d. Contract inflexibility 13. A swap occurs when ________. a. a company exchanges obligations with another company to make specified payment streams b. a company purchases commodities from a company in another country, exposing it to both commodity and currency risk c. a company chooses a local supplier over an international supplier to avoid currency exposure d. a company chooses a foreign supplier so that its commodity risk will be offset by its currency risk Review Questions 1. What is the difference between someone using a derivative security to hedge risk and someone using a derivative security to speculate? 2. Explain how vertical integration may be used as a method of hedging against commodity price risk. 3. What is the difference between a forward contract and a futures contract? 4. You are considering purchasing a call option to purchase Mexican pesos in three months with a strike price of MXN 20/USD. The premium for this call option is MXN 2. Show the payoff you will receive at various prices in a diagram. 5. You are considering writing a call option to purchase Mexican pesos in three months with a strike price of MXN 20/USD. The premium for this call option is MXN 2. Show the payoff you will receive at various prices in a diagram. 6. Why are options considered to be a "zero-sum game"? Problems 1. The Olive Orchard is a US retail outlet for high-quality olive oils. One of the major suppliers of olive oil for the company is a farm in Greece. The Olive Orchard must pay the Greek farm 5.00 euros per liter of olive oil it purchases. The Olive Orchard would like to purchase 7,000 liters of the Greek farm's olive oil next year. Currently, it costs 0.900 euros to purchase 1 US dollar. If the exchange rate remains constant, how much will it cost the Olive Orchard (in US dollars) to purchase the 7,000 liters? If the exchange rate changes so that it costs 0.8599 euros to purchase 1 US dollar, how much will it cost to purchase the 7,000 liters of olive oil? 2. International Automobile Parts (IAP) holds a call option to purchase US dollars. The strike price on the call option is JPY 115/USD. IAP paid JPY 10 for the option. The spot price is JPY 120/USD, and the option expires today. Should IAP exercise the option? What is IAP's payoff? 3. Global Producers (GP) holds a put option to sell US dollars. The strike price on the put option is JPY 114/ USD. GP paid JPY 10 for the option. The spot price is JPY 120/USD, and the option expires today. Should GP exercise the option? What is GP's payoff? 20 • Review Questions 621