per share, and sold the stock at the end of the year for $169.72 per share. Calculate your total dollar return, your dividend yield, your capital gain yield, and your total percent yield. Solution: Because you purchased 10 shares, you received in dividend income. You spent to purchase the stock, and you sold it for Your total dollar return is Your dividend yield is , or 3.38%, and your capital gain yield is or 3.02%. Your total percent return is Notice that you sold MMM for a price lower than what you paid for it at the beginning of the year. Your capital gain is negative, or what is often referred to as a capital loss. Although the price fell, you still had a positive total dollar return because of the dividend income. Of course, investors seldom purchase a stock and then sell it exactly one year later. Assume that you purchased shares of Facebook (FB) on June 1, 2020, for $228.50 per share and sold the shares three months later for $261.90. You received no dividends. In this case, your holding period percentage return is calculated as This 14.62% is your return for a three-month holding period. To compare them to other investment opportunities, you need to express returns on a per-year, or annualized, basis. The holding period returned is converted to an effective annual rate (EAR) using the formula where m is the number of holding periods in a year. There are four three-month periods in a year. So, the EAR for this investment is What happens if you own a stock for more than one year? Your holding period return would have occurred over a period longer than a year, but the process to calculate the EAR is the same. Suppose you purchased shares of FB in May 2015, when it was selling for $79.30 per share. You held the stock until May 2020, when you sold it for $224.59. Your holding period percentage return would be . You more than tripled your money, but it took you five years to do so. Your EAR, which will be smaller than this five-year holding period return rate, is calculated as Average Annual Returns Suppose that you purchased shares of Delta Airlines (DAL) at the beginning of 2011 for $11.19 and held the stock for 10 years before selling it for $40.21. You made on your investment over a 10-year period. This is a 259.34% holding period return. The EAR for this investment is 15.1 • Risk and Return to an Individual Asset 451