Statistics and is part of the consumer price index (CPI) data that is periodically published by that government agency. In a way, purchasing power can be viewed as a mirror image or exact opposite of inflation or increases in consumer prices, as measured by the CPI. Figure 7.18 demonstrates the decline in the purchasing power of the consumer dollar over the 13-year period from 2007 to 2020. With this in mind, we can work with the TVM formula and use it to help determine the present value of money you have in hand today, as well as how this same amount of money may be valued at any specific point in the future and at any specific rate of interest. Figure 7.18 Historical Purchasing Power Decline as a Result of Inflation, 2007-2020 (data source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) The Relationship between TVM and Inflation As we have seen, the future value formula can be very helpful in calculating the value of a sum of cash (or any liquid asset) at some future point in time. One of the important ideas relating to the concept of TVM is that it is preferable to spend money today instead of at some point in the future (all other things being equal) when inflation is positive. However, in very rare instances in our economy when inflation is negative, spending money later is preferable to spending it now. This is because in cases of negative inflation, the purchasing power of a dollar is actually greater in the future, as the costs of goods and services are declining as we move into the future. Most investors would be inclined to take a payment of money today rather than wait five years to receive a payment in the same amount. This is because inflation is almost always positive, which means that general prices of goods and services tend to increase over the passage of time. This is a direct function and result of normal economic growth. The crux of the concept of TVM is directly related to maintaining the present value of financial assets or increasing the value of these financial assets at different points in the future when they may be needed to obtain goods and services. If a consumer's monetary assets grow at a greater rate than inflation over any period of time, then the consumer will realize an increase in their overall purchasing power. Conversely, if inflation exceeds savings or investment growth, then the consumer will lose purchasing power as time goes by under such conditions. The Impact of Inflation on TVM The difference between present and future values of money can be easily seen when considered under the effects of inflation. As we discussed above, inflation is defined as a state of continuously rising prices for goods and services within an economy. In the study of economics, the laws of supply and demand state that increasing the amount of money within an economy without increasing the amount of goods and services available will give consumers and businesses more money to spend on those goods and services. When more money is created and made available to the consuming public, the value of each unit of currency will diminish. 216 7 • Time Value of Money I: Single Payment Value Access for free at openstax.org