and William Danko illustrate these terms with a flowing river. A river is in constant movement, and as the flow or depth increases, this is comparable to one's income increasing through the promotions, salary increases, and bonuses one receives. Unfortunately, many individuals then increase their spending habits in response, justifying a better car, a second home, or more lavish vacations. Wealth, in contrast, is comparable to taking a bucket of water from the river and holding it aside in a tank for oneself. Financial professionals often call this "paying yourself first." Stanley and Danko list this among the "secrets" referenced in the title of their book. 8.1 Perpetuities Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Define perpetuity. • Explain how perpetuities are valued. In Time Value of Money I, we learned that the value of money changes with the passage of time. Decision- makers consider how investments, projects, and even opportunity costs gain value as we move forward into the future. They similarly consider how value in the future can be reduced to a value in present or past periods. We saw that these value projections are called determination of future value (compounding, moving forward on a timeline) or present value (discounting, moving backward on a timeline). The easiest way to visualize this movement through time, whether forward or backward, is by use of a timeline. Throughout the first chapter on the time value of money, we were analyzing a single amount. In this chapter, we deal with a stream of payments made periodically-in other words, payments made or received regularly over a span of time. We begin with the illustration of a perpetuity. What Is a Perpetuity? A perpetuity is a series of payments or receipts that continues forever, or perpetually. One of the best ways to analyze the basics of an annuity (the stream of payments to be paid or received in the future) is by starting with a perpetuity. The most common examples of perpetuities in the author's experience are college chair endowments and preferred stock. If you gift $1,500,000 to a college to name a professor's chair for your family, you might specify that the money must be held in perpetuity and invested by the college to yield a fixed 3%. The college will take those proceeds of the investment, leaving your original $1,500,000 intact, and use the annual interest of $45,000 to fund a portion of the professor's salary. Another common example is preferred stock. Most preferred stock issues carry a fixed and predetermined rate of dividend. If we assume that the dividend will not change in future years, then preferred dividend shareholders will receive a fixed amount of money in future years-assuming, of course, that the company's board of directors declares the dividends sufficient to fund these requirements. If we assume that the dividend is declared and paid and that it remains constant, this represents a perpetuity. For example, Shaw Inc. has issued 100,000 shares of preferred stock with a stated value of $50 and a 4% dividend. Therefore, if they can fund and decide to declare dividends for the full amount, they will pay out $200,000, or $2.00 per preferred share. Because shares such as these are created with the intention of continuity, the owner of this preferred stock can theoretically expect this dividend income stream in perpetuity. To place a current market value on this stream of future income, how much should an investor pay for one share of this preferred stock? The calculation is a present value. The amount the investor pays today for that one share is equal to the annual dividend (assuming it is declared and paid) divided by the rate of return. But be careful-it is not the rate on the face of the preferred stock but the required rate of return, the "market rate" that investors expect from a stock of this level of risk. We must also note an important fact affecting all 228 8 • Time Value of Money II: Equal Multiple Payments Access for free at openstax.org