You continued your financial statement development in Measures of Financial Health, where you saw how to use elements of the balance sheet to assess financial health. Ratios based on balance sheet accounts can be useful for understanding relationships between balance sheet items-how they related in the past and then, in forecasting, how those relationships might change or remain the same in the future. Examples of balance sheet ratios include the current ratio, quick ratio, cash ratio, debt-to-assets ratio, and debt-to-equity ratio. In Financial Statements, you also explored common-size analysis. To prepare a common-size analysis of the balance sheet, every item on the statement must be expressed as a percentage of total assets. Seeing each item as a percentage-that is, seeing its relationship to total assets-is also helpful for assessing historical statements and how those percentages or relationships can be used to predict future balances in the forecast. For example, in Figure 18.5, you can see that Clear Lake's current assets represented 80% of its total assets in both the current and prior years. Figure 18.5 Common-Size Balance Sheet Income Statement Analysis Like balance sheet analysis, income statement analysis is also quite helpful in preparing for the forecasting process. In Financial Statements, you learned that the income statement is commonly broken down into a few sections. Cost of goods sold is deducted from net sales to arrive at gross margin. Gross margin refers to the profits earned solely on the sale of the product itself, without consideration for the expenses incurred to run the business. Next, operating expenses are deducted to reflect operating income. Operating income reflects the profits of the core business function. Finally, other items, such as interest expense, tax expense, and other gains and losses, are deducted to arrive at net income, a.k.a. the bottom line. Each segment of the income statement is helpful for assessing past performance and estimating future expenses for a forecast. You continued your financial statement development in Measures of Financial Health, where you saw how to 18.1 • The Importance of Forecasting 539