Opportunity Costs The concept of opportunity cost arises from the idea that there will always be possible options that are sacrificed with every option we decide on or for every choice that we make. For example, let's consider the decision to go to college after you graduate from high school. This decision, as with just about any other, will involve evaluating opportunity costs. If you choose to go to college, this will result in your sacrificing four years of potential earnings that you could have had if you had decided to take a job instead of attending school. Also, in addition to the lost salary, you would be losing out on four years of work experience that could have had a positive impact on your résumé or your future earnings prospects. Of course, the entire idea behind furthering one's education is that you are hopeful that by choosing to go to college, you will increase the likelihood of earning a greater salary over the course of your lifetime than you would have if you had chosen to join the workforce directly out of high school. So, this ends up being a bit of a risk, but one that you have considered. The idea is that you are hoping for a more significant payoff down the road than if you had made the decision not to continue with your studies. When it comes to opportunity costs and the time value of money, it is obvious that there will always be costs associated with every forgone financial opportunity we pass on when we make a different choice. The logical individual can only hope that these choices produce a better end result than if we had made different choices and pursued any of our forgone alternatives. This also applies in situations where we may sit idly by and decide to take no action at all. For example, if you are putting $1,000 in a savings account to save for a house, you may be giving up an opportunity to grow that money in an investment account that would earn a greater rate of return. In another example, being able to calculate the future value of your money will tell you that instead of investing, you probably should be paying down your 24% APR credit card debt that is costing you hundreds of dollars a month-hundreds of dollars more than you might earn from an investment account. 7.4 • Applications of TVM in Finance 221