investment valuations: the value of an investment generally represents our expectations of all future cash flows from that investment, discounted to today's dollars. Because a perpetuity is a stream of payments continuing indefinitely, determining the future value isn't possible. Determining the present value, however, is possible, although one might wonder how. As we learned earlier, the greater the amount of time used in a present value calculation, the smaller the amount of dollars needed at the beginning, regardless of the interest rate involved. Therefore, when we discount each payment in an infinite series, remembering that we would then add them together once we discount them to the present, the infinite payments become negligible at some point and will no longer have a significant impact on today's value. To grow to one dollar 70 years from now, even at a growth rate of 5% per year, we would only need $0.0329-not even four cents. Keeping all other facts the same, if we had 100 years to grow an investment to one dollar, we would only need 0.76 cents-not even a whole penny! There is no question that the effect of time is substantial and dramatic. The study of perpetuities in corporate finance is a first step to understanding valuation models of certain investments, such as the dividend discount model and the constant growth model, to be addressed in other chapters. Our ability to discount future cash flows, even infinite cash flows, to a present value is a clue to the price at which a company's stock might trade. From a personal financial planning perspective, the individual investor is also better able to be certain that they are paying a fair price for holdings in their portfolio. For purposes of long-term or retirement planning, the investor must consider that a fixed and unchanging dividend, such as from preferred stock, might not adequately protect the holder from inflation in times of rising prices. How to Value a Perpetuity Given these facts, how do we place a value on a perpetuity? Let's keep the preferred stock example for Shaw Inc. in mind. The holder of one share will expect to receive a $2.00 dividend for every share owned. Although a perpetuity may allow for growth of that dividend, we will hold that constant now. We must know one additional fact: the required rate of return. This is our random variable, which can cause fluctuation in the price of the preferred stock. Let's assume that the required rate of return, which we'll call RS, is 7%. This is the rate of return that the market expects in order to take on the risk of an investment such as Shaw. Determination of the price of Shaw's preferred stock becomes quite simple because the expected annual cash flow should not change, making it a constant perpetuity. The constant perpetuity formula is where PV is the price of the preferred stock, C is the constant dividend, and Rs is the required rate of return. By substitution, The price one should pay for a share of Shaw's preferred stock is $28.57. Here's another constant perpetuity to try. The preferred stock of Rooney Corporation pays an annual dividend of $1.75 per share. If the required rate of return in the market for shares such as Rooney's is 5.8%, at what price should these preferred shares be trading? The answer is , or $30.17. Some investments might involve a growing perpetuity. In this case, some degree of change in the amount of the dividend is expected. The formula is altered slightly to include a rate of growth in the denominator, noted as G, making the growing perpetuity formula 8.1 • Perpetuities 229