One disadvantage of using the variance is that the variance is measured in square units, which are different from the units in the data set. For example, if the data set consists of ages measured in years, then the variance would be measured in years squared, which can be confusing. The standard deviation is measured in the same units as the original data set, and thus the standard deviation is used more commonly than the variance to measure the spread of a data set. 13.3 Measures of Position By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Define and calculate z-scores for a measurement. • Define and calculate quartiles and percentiles for a data set. • Use quartiles as a method to detect outliers in a data set. z-Scores A z-score, also called a z-value, is a measure of the position of an entry in a data set. It represents the number of standard deviations by which a data value differs from the mean. For example, suppose that in a certain year, the rates of return for various technology-focused mutual funds are examined, and the mean return is 7.8% with a standard deviation of 2.3%. A certain mutual fund publishes its rate of return as 12.4%. Based on this rate of return of 12.4%, we can calculate the relative standing of this mutual fund compared to the other technology-focused mutual funds. The corresponding z-score of a measurement considers the given measurement in relation to the mean and standard deviation for the entire population. The formula for a z-score calculation is as follows: where x is the measurement, is the mean, and is the standard deviation. THINK IT THROUGH Interpreting a z-Score A certain technology-based mutual fund reports a rate of return of 12.4% for a certain year, while the mean rate of return for comparable funds is 7.8% and the standard deviation is 2.3%. Calculate and interpret the z-score for this particular mutual fund. Solution: In this example, the measurement and Using the z-score formula, the calculation is performed as follows: The resulting z-score indicates the number of standard deviations by which a particular measurement is above or below the mean. In this example, the rate of return for this particular mutual fund is 2 standard deviations above the mean, indicating that this mutual fund generated a significantly better rate of return than all other technology-based mutual funds for the same time period. Quartiles and Percentiles If a person takes an IQ test, their resulting score might be reported as in the 87th percentile. This percentile indicates the person's relative performance compared to others taking the IQ test. A person scoring in the 87th percentile has an IQ score higher than 87% of all others taking the test. This is the same as saying that the 390 13 • Statistical Analysis in Finance Access for free at openstax.org