The range of the equity cost of capital estimates for each of the firms is significant. Consider, for example, Goodyear Tire and Rubber. According to MarketWatch, the beta for the company is 1.24, resulting in an estimated cost of equity capital between 9.20% and 12.92%. The beta provided by Yahoo! Finance is much higher, at 2.26. Using this higher beta results in an estimated equity cost of capital for Goodyear Tire and Rubber between 14.30% and 21.08%. This leaves the financial managers of Goodyear Tire and Rubber with an estimate of the equity cost of capital between 9.20% and 21.08%, using a range of reasonable assumptions. What is a financial manager to do when one estimate is more than twice as large as another estimate? A financial manager who believes the equity cost of capital is close to 9% is likely to make very different choices from one who believes the cost is closer to 21%. This is why it is important for a financial manager to have a broad understanding of the operations of a particular company. First, the manager must know the historical background from which these numbers were derived. It is not enough for the manager to know that beta is estimated as 1.24 or 2.26; the manager must be able to determine why the estimates are so different. Second, the manager must be familiar enough with the company and the economic environment to draw a conclusion about what set of assumptions will most likely be reasonable going forward. While these numbers are based on historical data, the financial manager's main concern is what the numbers will be going forward. It is evident that estimating the equity cost of capital is not a simple task for companies. Although we do see a wide range of estimates in the table, some general principles emerge. First, the average company has a beta of 1. With a risk-free rate of 3% and a market risk premium in the range of 5% to 8%, the cost of equity capital will fall within a range of 8% to 11% for the average company. Companies that have a beta less than 1 will have an equity cost of capital that falls below this range, and companies that have a beta greater than 1 will have an equity cost of capital that rises above this range. Recall that a company's beta is heavily influenced by the type of industry. Grocery stores and providers of food products, for example, tend to have betas less than 1. During recessionary times, people still eat, but during expansionary times, people do not significantly increase their spending on these products. Thus, companies such as Kroger, Coca-Cola, and Kraft Heinz will tend to have low betas and a range of equity cost of capital below 8% to 11%. The sales of companies in other industries tend to be much more volatile. During expansionary periods, people fly to vacation destinations and purchase new homes. During recessionary periods, families cut back on these discretionary expenditures. Thus, companies such as American Airlines and KB Homes will have higher betas and ranges of equity cost of capital that exceed the 8% to 11% average. The higher equity cost of capital is needed to incentivize investors to invest in these companies with riskier cash flows rather than in lower-risk companies. The CAPM estimate depends on assumptions made, but issues also exist with the constant dividend growth model. First, the constant dividend growth model can be used only for companies that pay dividends. Second, the model assumes that the dividends will grow at a constant rate in the future, an assumption that is not always reasonable. It also assumes that the financial manager accurately forecasts the growth rate of dividends; any error in this forecast results in an error in estimating the cost of equity capital. Given the differences in assumptions made when using the constant dividend growth model and the CAPM to estimate the equity cost of capital, it is not surprising that the numbers from the two models differ. When estimating the cost of equity capital for a particular firm, financial managers must examine the assumptions made for both approaches and decide which set of assumptions is more realistic for that particular company. 17.3 • Calculating the Weighted Average Cost of Capital 515