investment. For the same $50 million of investment funds, Southwest Manufacturer can accept both Projects E and F for a total NPV of $18 million. Investment capital is a scare resource for this company. By ranking projects based on their profitability index, the company is able to determine the best way to allocate its scarce capital for the largest potential increase in NPV. CONCEPTS IN PRACTICE Capital Budgeting Challenges Although the basic techniques of project evaluation are straightforward, real-world capital budgeting decisions are complex and multifaceted. The goal of capital budgeting is to choose the projects that will bring the most value to the shareholders of the company. The NPV rule provides a clear, concise criterion for which projects will bring value to the shareholders. It is important to remember, however, that all of the project valuation calculations are based on projected cash flows. These projected cash flows are estimates, based on the best educated guesses that a company makes about its business opportunities over the next few years. Because no company has a crystal ball that can predict the future, its calculation of NPV is an estimate of what it expects. Think, for example, of an oil company deciding whether to drill for oil. The project will require expenditures on equipment, land, and other items. The cash inflows will depend on the likelihood of oil being found, the quantity of oil produced by the well, and the price at which the oil can be sold. If a company estimates that oil will sell for $100 per barrel during the next few years, the project will have a much higher NPV than if the company estimates that oil will sell for only $50 per barrel. A project that has a positive NPV and is accepted when a company is planning how to allocate its capital toward investments may end up being a bad project that the company wishes it had avoided if the future is much different from what it projected. Managers must stay attuned to economic developments and reevaluate capital budgeting decisions when significant changes occur. In spring 2020, managers around the globe were faced with a dramatically changing economic environment amid a pandemic. Oil companies, for example, saw oil prices drop from over $50 per barrel at the beginning of March to under $15 per barrel by the end of April. LINK TO LEARNING Reducing Capital Spending In June 2020, McKinsey & Company looked at major companies around the world that were reducing their capital expenditures in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. These companies were cutting their capital budgets by 10% to 80% from their originally planned levels for 2020. Reductions were especially large in the oil and gas industry, as companies found their revenue projections, and thus the NPV of their planned projects, falling dramatically. In addition, companies found themselves needing to free up cash; with more limited cash resources, fewer positive NPV projects could be accepted and funded.3 Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many CFOs were challenged to stabilize their corporate cash flows. This article explains how quickly reducing capital spending (https://openstax.org/r/quickly-reducing), which is usually a quick enough fix, was able to help. 3 Tom Brinded, Zak Cutler, Erikhans Kok, and Prakash Parbhoo. "Resetting Capital Spending in the Wake of COVID-19." McKinsey & Company. June 25, 2020. https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/operations/our-insights/resetting-capital-spending-in-the- wake-of-covid-19 16.5 • Choosing between Projects 495