Interest and Savings Savings are adversely affected by negative real interest rates. A person who holds money in the form of cash is actually losing future purchasing value when real interest rates are negative. A saver who decides to hold $1,000 in the form of cash for one year at a negative real interest rate of −3.65% per year will lose or $36.50, in purchasing power by the end of that year. Ordinarily, interest rates would rise to compensate for negative real rates, but this might not happen if the Federal Reserve takes steps to maintain low interest rates to help stimulate and stabilize the economy. When interest rates are at such low levels, investors are forced out of Treasury and money market investments due to their extremely poor returns. It soon becomes obvious that the time value of money is a critical concept because of its tremendous and direct impact on the daily spending, saving, and investment decisions of the people in our society. It is therefore extremely important that we understand how TVM and government fiscal policy can affect our savings, investments, purchasing behavior, and our overall personal financial health. Compounding Interest As we discussed earlier, compound interest can be defined as interest that is being earned on interest. In cases of compounding interest, the amount of money that is being accrued on previous amounts of earned interest income will continue to grow with each compounding period. So, for example, if you have $1,000 in a savings account and it is earning interest at a 10% annual rate and is compounded every year for a period of five years, the compounding will allow for growth after one year to an amount of $1,100. This comprises the original principal of $1,000 plus $100 in interest. In year two, you would actually be earning interest on the total amount from the previous compounding period-the $1,100 amount. So, to continue with this example, by the end of year two, you would have earned $1,210 ($1,100 plus $110 in interest). If you continue on until the end of year five, that $1,000 will have grown to approximately $1,610. Now, if we consider that the highest annual inflation rate over the last 20 years has been 3%, then in this scenario, choosing to invest your present money in an account where interest is being compounded leaves you in a much better position than you would be in if you did not invest your money at all. The concept of the time value of money puts this entire idea into context for us, leading to more informed decisions on personal saving and investing. It is important to understand that interest does not always compound annually, as assumed in the examples we have already covered. In some cases, interest can be compounded quarterly, monthly, daily, or even continuously. The general rule to apply is that the more frequent the compounding period, the greater the future value of a savings amount, a bond, or any other financial instrument. This is, of course, assuming that all other variables are constant. The math for this remains the same, but it is important that you be careful with your treatment and usage of rate (r) and number of periods (n) in your calculations. For example, $1,000 invested at 6% for a year compounded annually would be worth . But that same $1,000 invested for that same period of time-one year-and earning interest at the same annual rate but compounded monthly would grow to , because the interest paid each month is earning interest on interest at a 6% rate. Note that we represent r as the interest paid per period and n as the number of periods (12 months in a year; ) rather than the number of years, which is only one. Continuing with our example, that same $1,000 in an account with interest compounded quarterly, or four times a year, would grow to in one year. Note that this final amount ends up being greater than the annually compounded future value of $1,060.00 and slightly less than the monthly 218 7 • Time Value of Money I: Single Payment Value Access for free at openstax.org