final portfolio balance to $432,411. Stay out of the market on the 10 best days, and the balance would have ended at only $313,377, or less than half of the return earned in the full time period. Watch this Wall Street Journal (https://openstax.org/r/wall-street-journal-video) video on the DJIA to learn more. CONCEPTS IN PRACTICE Warren Buffett Figure 12.15 Warren Buffett (credit: "Warren Buffet at the 2015 Select USA Investment Summit." USA International Trade Administration/Wikimedia Commons, CC Public Domain Mark) Warren Buffett has not always been one of the richest people in the world, but he has always been one of the hardest workers. An entrepreneur from an early age, Buffett's yearbook photo caption noted that he "likes math: a future stockbroker." Before leaving high school, Buffett had already earned thousands of dollars running a paper route and through one of his start-up businesses of installing and maintaining pinball machines in barbershops. As they say in Nebraska, "you need to make hay while the sun shines," and Buffett has made his share of hay, so to speak. In his career, Buffett has accumulated enough hay to be one of the wealthiest people in the world, with a net worth of over $80 billion by the end of 2020. The "Oracle of Omaha," as Buffett is known, grew his fortune through investing partnerships and most notably as the chairman, president, CEO, and largest stockholder of Berkshire Hathaway (BRK). Berkshire Hathaway was a New England textile manufacturer when Buffett and his investment partners began buying shares in the 1960s. By 1966, after a dispute with the then CEO of Berkshire, Buffett assumed control of the company and fired the CEO. Soon, Buffett's partnerships merged into Berkshire and moved the business away from textiles; it eventually became the largest financial services company in the world, including total ownership of the Geico Insurance Company. Buffett's career is notable for how he developed his fortune, how he explained his philosophy, and for his current and future plans. Buffett followed the method of Benjamin Graham, famous value investor and author of Security Analysis, The Intelligent Investor. However, Buffett expanded beyond Graham's analysis 12.4 • Historical Picture of Returns to Stocks 373