period zero at the beginning of the project. The NPV function in cell J6 will return $56,947 for this project. You must subtract the initial cash outflow of $30,000 that occurs at time 0 to get the NPV of $26,947 for the project. When entering the Excel-programmed NPV function, you must remember to include references only to the cells that contain cash flows from year 1 to the end of the project. Then, subtract the initial investment of year 0 to calculate NPV according to the standard definition of NPV-the present values of the cash inflows minus the present value of the cash outflow. Note: Because of the nonstandard use of the term NPV by Excel, many users prefer to use the method described above rather than this predefined function. Figure 16.6 NPV Formula ($ except IRR/Cost of Funds) Calculating IRR Using Excel Excel also provide a function for calculating IRR. This function is shown in Figure 16.7, cell J8. The IRR function properly uses all the project's cash flows, including the initial cash outflow at time 0, in its calculation, unlike the NPV function. This function will correctly return the IRR of 27.7% for the project. Figure 16.8 shows the completed spreadsheet. Figure 16.7 Function for Calculating IRR ($ except IRR/Cost of Funds) Figure 16.8 Final Spreadsheet ($ except IRR/Cost of Funds) Using Excel to Create an NPV Profile Firms often do not know exactly what their cost of attracting capital is, so they must use estimates in their decision-making. Also, the cost of attracting capital can change with economic and market conditions. Especially if markets are volatile, a company may use an NPV profile to see how sensitive their decisions are to changes in financing costs. Excel simplifies the creation of an NPV profile. Middleton Manufacturing is considering installing solar panels to heat water and provide lighting throughout its plant. To do so will cost the company $800,000 this year. However, this upgrade will save the company an estimated $150,000 in electrical costs each year for the next 10 years. Constructing an NPV profile of this project will allow Middleton to see how the NPV of the project changes with the cost of attracting funds. 16.6 • Using Excel to Make Company Investment Decisions 497