delivery from an online retailer. Although keeping the items in the market basket constant allows economists to focus on price changes, the market basket quickly becomes outdated and does not reflect a typical family's purchases. In an attempt to provide new measures of inflation that better represent the changing basket of goods purchased and the purchasing habits of families, Alberto Cavallo and Roberto Rigobon founded the Billion Prices Project. Through this academic initiative at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, prices are collected daily from online retailers around the world. The Billion Prices Project website (https://openstax.org/r/billion-prices-project) provides measures for inflation using this data as well as research papers regarding macroeconomic research. Historical Trends in the Inflation Rate Inflation, as measured by the CPI for 1947-2020, is displayed in Figure 3.10. The graph shows that for the past 70 years, inflation has been the norm. Although inflation dipped into negative territory several times, each period of negative inflation was short-lived. Also, you will notice that during the 1970s and early 1980s, inflation was abnormally high; the inflation rate remained above 5% for approximately a decade. This was also the only time period in which the US economy experienced double-digit inflation. By the mid-1980s, inflation had fallen below 5%, and it has remained below 5% for much of the past 35 years. Figure 3.10 Rate of Inflation Measured by the Consumer Price Index, 1947-20202 The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers: All Items (CPIAUCSL) is a measure of the average monthly change in the price for goods and services paid by urban consumers between any two time periods. It can also represent the buying habits of urban consumers. This particular index includes roughly 88% of the total population, accounting for wage earners, clerical workers, technical workers, self-employed workers, short- term workers, unemployed workers, retirees, and those not in the labor force. The CPIs are based on prices for food, clothing, shelter, fuels, transportation fares, service fees (e.g., water and sewer service), and sales taxes. Prices are collected monthly from about 4,000 housing units and approximately 26,000 retail establishments across 87 urban areas. To calculate the index, price changes are averaged with weights representing their importance in the spending of a particular group. The index measures price changes (as a percent change) from a predetermined reference date. In addition to the original unadjusted index distributed, the BLS also releases a seasonally adjusted index. The unadjusted series reflects all factors that may influence a change in prices. However, it can be very useful to look at the 78 3 • Economic Foundations: Money and Rates Access for free at openstax.org