20.3 Exchange Rates and Risk Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe exchange rate risk. • Identify transaction, translation, and economic risks. • Describe a natural hedge. • Explain the use of forward contracts as a hedge. • List the characteristics of an option contract. • Describe the payoff to the holder and writer of a call option. • Describe the payoff to the holder and writer of a put option. The managers of companies that operate in the global marketplace face additional complications when managing the riskiness of their cash flows compared to domestic companies. Managers must be aware of differing business climates and customs and operate under multiple legal systems. Often, business must be conducted in multiple languages. Geopolitical events can impact business relationships. In addition, the company may receive cash flows and make payments in multiple currencies. Exchange Rates The costs to companies are impacted when the prices of the raw materials they use change. Very little coffee is grown in the United States. This means that all of those coffee beans that Starbucks uses in its espresso machines in Seattle, New York, Miami, and Houston were bought from suppliers outside of the United States. Brazil is the largest coffee-producing country, exporting about one-third of the world's coffee.6 When a company purchases raw materials from a supplier in another country, the company needs not just money but the money that is used in that country to make the purchase. Thus, the company is concerned about the exchange rate, or the price of the foreign currency. Figure 20.2 Brazilian Reals to One US Dollar7 The currency used in Brazil is called the Brazilian real. Figure 20.2 shows how many Brazilian reals could be purchased for $1.00 from 2010 through the first quarter of 2021. In March 2021, 5.4377 Brazilian reals could be purchased for $1.00. This will often be written in the form of 6 Global Agricultural Information Network. Brazil: Coffee Annual 2019. GAIN Report No. BR19006. Washington, DC: USDA Foreign Agricultural Service, May 2019. https://apps.fas.usda.gov/newgainapi/api/report/ downloadreportbyfilename?filename=Coffee%20Annual_Sao%20Paulo%20ATO_Brazil_5-16-2019.pdf 604 20 • Risk Management and the Financial Manager Access for free at openstax.org