14.2 Linear Regression Analysis Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Analyze a regression using the method of least squares and residuals. • Test the assumptions for linear regression. Method of Least Squares and Residuals Once the correlation coefficient has been calculated and a determination has been made that the correlation is significant, typically a regression model is then developed. In this discussion we will focus on linear regression, where a straight line is used to model the relationship between the two variables. Once a straight- line model is developed, this model can then be used to predict the value of the dependent variable for a specific value of the independent variable. Recall from algebra that the equation of a straight line is given by where m is the slope of the line and b is the y-intercept of the line. The slope measures the steepness of the line, and the y-intercept is that point on the y-axis where the graph crosses, or intercepts, the y-axis. In linear regression analysis, the equation of the straight line is written in a slightly different way using the model In this format, b is the slope of the line, and a is the y-intercept. The notation is called y-hat and is used to indicate a predicted value of the dependent variable y for a certain value of the independent variable x. If a line extends uphill from left to right, the slope is a positive value, and if the line extends downhill from left to right, the slope is a negative value. Refer to Figure 14.3. Figure 14.3 Three Possible Graphs of (a) If , the line slopes upward to the right. (b) If , the line is horizontal. (c) If , the line slopes downward to the right. When generating the equation of a line in algebra using , two (x, y) points were required to generate the equation. However, in regression analysis, all (x, y) points in the data set will be utilized to develop the linear regression model. The first step in any regression analysis is to create the scatter plot. Then proceed to calculate the correlation coefficient r, and check this value for significance. If we think that the points show a linear relationship, we would like to draw a line on the scatter plot. This line can be calculated through a process called linear regression. However, we only calculate a regression line if one of the variables helps to explain or predict the other variable. If x is the independent variable and y the dependent variable, then we can use a regression line to predict y for a given value of x. As an example of a regression equation, assume that a correlation exists between the monthly amount spent 424 14 • Regression Analysis in Finance Access for free at openstax.org