For example, a company may convert preferred stock into common stock at a preset point in the future. It is not uncommon for companies to issue preferred stock that has a conversion feature. Such conversion features give preferred shareholders the right to convert to common shares after a predetermined period. A review of the characteristics of preferred stock will lead to the conclusion that the constant growth dividend model is an excellent approach for valuing such stock. Because shares of preferred stock provide a constant cash dividend based on original par value and the stated dividend rate, these may be considered a form of perpetuity. It is this constant, preferred dividend stream that makes preferred stock seem more like bonds or another form of debt than like stock. In addition, the constant dividend stream leads nicely to the pricing of preferred stock with the four dividend models we presented earlier in this chapter. Determining the Intrinsic Value of Preferred Stock We can apply a version of the present value of a perpetuity formula to value preferred stock, as in the following example. Oh-Well Heath Services Inc. has issued preferred stock that has a par value of $1,000 and pays an annual dividend rate of 5%. If the market considers the risk of Oh-Well to warrant a 10% discount rate, what would be a fair market price for Oh-Well preferred stock? First, we find the dividend value of Oh-Well: We then use the constant dividend model with infinite horizon because we have g equal to zero and n equal to infinity: We can also rearrange the formula to determine the required return on this stock, given its annual dividend and current price. THINK IT THROUGH Calculating the Return on Preferred Stock Data Forge Inc. has just issued preferred stock (cumulative) with a par value of $100.00 and an annual dividend rate of 7%. The preferred stock is currently selling for $35.00 per share. What is the yield or return on this preferred stock? Solution: The first step is to determine the annual dividend by multiplying the dividend rate by the par value: Now, using this $7.00 annual dividend, the $35.00 current price, and the equation above, we calculate the rate of return as follows: 344 11 • Stocks and Stock Valuation Access for free at openstax.org