18.5 Forecasting Cash Flow and Assessing the Value of Growth Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Generate a cash flow forecast. • Assess a cash flow forecast to determine future cash funding needs. • Use pro forma financial statements and cash flow forecasts to assess the value of growth to the firm. In this section of the chapter, we will use the forecasted income statement, forecasted balance sheet, and other information we know about the firm's policies and goals for the coming year to generate and assess a cash flow forecast. Create a Cash Flow Forecast A cash flow forecast isn't overly complex, yet it is not easy to assemble because it requires making many assumptions about the future. A cash forecast begins with the beginning cash balance, adds anticipated cash inflows, and deducts anticipated cash outflows. This identifies cash surpluses and shortages. For Clear Lake Sporting Goods, for example, we see in Figure 18.15 that the company begins with cash of $42,581,000 in January of the new year. Next, it lists the cash inflows, or cash received from customers. Given the assumption that customers pay in 90-day terms, the cash flow is filled in by plugging in the sales forecast for the three prior months. For example, the cash flow from customers of $10,508 for June is the same as the net sales forecast for March (see Figure 18.13). Figure 18.15 Forecasted Cash Inflows Next, Clear Lake identifies cash outflows, which include accounts payable, salaries, rent, utilities, dividends, and interest payments. Accounts payable are normally paid within 30 days, so the forecast for cost of goods sold for the prior month is used as an estimate of amount paid for payables. For example, in Figure 18.16, we see that the accounts payable settled in June of $8,610 is the cost of goods sold for May from the forecasted income statement. Salaries are paid monthly and thus represent the same recurring monthly cash outflow, as does rent. Utilities, like accounts payable, are assumed to be paid within 30 days. Thus, the cash outflow for utilities is the utilities expense for the prior month from the forecasted income statement. Management intends to pay a quarterly dividend of $10,000. Thus, in Figure 18.16, we see $10,000 cash outflows forecasted for March, June, September, and December. Interest on the long-term liability is paid quarterly. Thus, the $500 cash outflows in March, June, September, and December are simply the monthly interest expense of $167 from the income statement, summed for each quarter. 550 18 • Financial Forecasting Access for free at openstax.org