Cost of Debt Capital A company's cost of debt is the interest rate it would have to pay to refinance its existing debt. Because a firm's existing debt trades in the marketplace, its price changes according to market conditions. The overall credit environment can change due to changing macroeconomic conditions, causing a change in the price of debt securities. In addition, as there are changes in the overall riskiness of the firm and its ability to repay its creditors, the price of the debt securities issued by the firm will change. The market price of a company's existing bonds implies a yield to maturity. Recall that the yield to maturity is the return that current purchasers of the debt will earn if they hold the bond to maturity and receive all of the payments promised by the borrowing firm. Yield to Maturity and the Cost of Debt Bluebonnet's debt is selling for 97% of its face value. This means that for every $100 of face value, investors are currently paying $97 for an outstanding bond issued by Bluebonnet Industries. This debt has a coupon rate of 6%, paid semiannually, and the bonds mature in 15 years. Because the bonds are selling at a discount, the yield that investors who purchase these bonds will receive if they hold the bond to maturity exceeds 6%. The purchasers of these bonds will receive a coupon payment of every six months for the next 15 years. They will also receive the $100 face value when the bonds mature in 15 years. To calculate the yield to maturity of these bonds using your financial calculator, input the information shown in Table 17.1. Step Description Enter Display 1 Enter number of coupon payments 30 N N = 30.00 2 Enter the price paid for the bond 97 +/- +/- PV PV PV = -97.00 3 Enter the coupon payment 3 PMT PMT PMT = 3.00 4 Enter the face value of the bond 100 FV FV FV = 100.00 5 Compute the semiannual rate CPT CPT I/Y I/Y I/Y = 3.156 6 Multiply 3.156 by 2 to get YTM 6.312 Table 17.1 Calculator Steps for Finding the Yield to Maturity1 The yield to maturity (YTM) of Bluebonnet Industries bonds is 6.312%. This YTM should be used in estimating the firm's overall cost of capital, not the coupon rate of 6% that is stated on the outstanding bonds. The coupon rate on the existing bonds is a historical rate, set under economic conditions that may have been different from the current market conditions. The YTM of 6.312% represents what investors are currently requiring to purchase the debt issued by the company. After-Tax Cost of Debt Although current debt holders demand to earn 6.312% to encourage them to lend to Bluebonnet Industries, the cost to the firm is less than 6.312%. This is because interest paid on debt is a tax-deductible expense. When a firm borrows money, the interest it pays is offset to some extent by the tax savings that occur because of this deductible expense. The after-tax cost of debt is the net cost of interest on a company's debt after taxes. This after-tax cost of debt is the firm's effective cost of debt. The after-tax cost of debt is calculated as , where is the before-tax cost of debt, or the return that the lenders receive, and T is the company's tax rate. If Bluebonnet 1 The specific financial calculator in these examples is the Texas Instruments BA II PlusTM Professional model, but you can use other financial calculators for these types of calculations. 510 17 • How Firms Raise Capital Access for free at openstax.org