each following year, we modify the formula above by multiplying the annual payment by one additional period: THINK IT THROUGH Begin an Investing Program at Age 20 or 30? In this chapter's introductory section, Why It Matters, we posed a question about pledging to invest $1,000 each year until you reach age 60. If you can earn a 5% annual rate of interest, how much will you have if you begin at age 20? What if you delay this program until age 30? The additional 10 years can make a surprisingly large difference. How can you calculate that difference? Solution: Perform two separate calculations comparable to the chapter examples above, using the formula for the future value of an ordinary annuity. You plan to make the first investment immediately, making this an annuity due, so you will multiply by one additional period, (1 + 0.05). Notice that the only difference between the two calculations is the exponent N, representing the number of periods. Thirty years (starting at age 30): Forty years (starting at age 20): Waiting 10 years before committing to this program comes with a surprisingly high cost-a loss of almost 82% of the potential value. How Annuities Are Used for Retirement Planning On a final note, how might annuities be used for retirement planning? A person might receive a lump-sum windfall from an investment, and rather than choosing to accept the proceeds, they might decide to invest the sum (ignoring taxes) in an annuity. Their intention is to let this invested sum produce annual distributions to supplement Social Security payments. Assume the recipient just received $75,000, again ignoring tax effects. They have the chance to invest in an annuity that will provide a distribution at the end of each of the next five years, and that annuity contract provides interest at 3% annually. Their first receipt will be one year from now. This is an ordinary annuity. We can also solve for the payment given the other variables, an important aspect of financial analysis. If the person with the $75,000 windfall wants this fund to last five years and they can earn 3%, then how much can they withdraw from this fund each year? To solve this question, we can apply the present value of an annuity formula. This time, the payment (PYMT) is the unknown, and we know that the PVa, or the present value that they have at this moment, is $75,000: 238 8 • Time Value of Money II: Equal Multiple Payments Access for free at openstax.org