The Price-to-Book (P/B) Ratio Another financial ratio commonly used by investors and analysts is the price-to-book (P/B) ratio, also called the market-to-book (M/B) ratio. This is a financial metric used to evaluate a company's current market value relative to its book value. The market value, or market capitalization, of a company is defined as the current price of all its outstanding shares of common stock. This is essentially equal to the total value of the company as perceived by the market. For all intents and purposes, the book value is representative of the residual of a company after it has liquidated all assets and paid off all of its liabilities. Book value can be determined by performing some financial analysis on a company's balance sheet. Essentially, analysts will use the P/B ratio to compare a business's available net assets relative to the current sales price of its stock. The price-to-book-value ratio formula is One of the primary uses of the P/B ratio is to understand market perceptions of a particular stock's value. It is often the metric of choice for evaluating financial services firms such as real estate firms, insurance companies, and investment trusts. The P/B ratio has a notable shortcoming, however, in that it does not evaluate companies that have a high level of intangible assets such as patents, trademarks, and copyrights. Ultimately, this ratio will tell an analyst exactly how much potential investors are willing to pay for each dollar of asset value. The PB(M/B) ratio is computed by dividing the current closing price of the stock by the company's current book value per share, which is calculated by either of the following two equations: Net book value is equal to net assets, or the total assets minus the total liabilities of the company. Analysts often consider a low P/B ratio (less than 1) to indicate that a stock is undervalued and a higher ratio (greater than 1) to mean that a stock is overvalued. A low ratio may be an indication that something is wrong with the company or that an investor may be paying too much for any residual value should the company be liquidated. However, many market experts will argue the exact opposite of the above interpretations. Because of these discrepancies in interpretation and overall variance of opinion, the use of alternate stock valuation metrics, either in addition to or in place of the P/B ratio, is always worth exploring. In conclusion, the P/B ratio can help a company understand if its net assets are comparable to the market price of its stock. However, as with the P/E ratio, it is always a good idea to compare P/B ratios of companies within the same industry and use them in conjunction with other metrics and analytical methodologies. LINK TO LEARNING Price-to-Earnings Ratio and Price-to-Book Ratio Two videos cover the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio (https://openstax.org/r/price-to-earnings) and the price- to-book (P/B) ratio (https://openstax.org/r/price-to-book_ratio). These are excellent introductory videos that will provide you with helpful information on what these ratios represent and how they can be used in stock valuation. 322 11 • Stocks and Stock Valuation Access for free at openstax.org