First, the project cash flows must be placed in an Excel spreadsheet, as is shown in cells D2 through N2 in Figure 16.9. The company's cost of funds is placed in cell B1; begin by putting in 10% for this rate. Next, the formula for NPV is placed in cell B6; cell B6 shows the NPV of the cash flows in cells D2 through N2, using the rate that is in cell B1. For reference, compute IRR in cell B4. Calculating IRR is not necessary for creating the NPV profile. However, it gives a good reference point. Remember that if the IRR of a project is greater than the firm's cost of attracting capital, then the NPV will be positive; if the IRR of a project is less than the firm's cost of attracting capital, then the NPV will be negative. An NPV profile is created by calculating the NPV of the project for a variety of possible costs of attracting capital. In other words, you want to calculate NPV using the project cash flows in cells D2 through N2, using a variety of discount rates in cell B1. This is accomplished by using the Excel data table function. The data table function shows how the outcome of an Excel formula changes when one of the cells in the spreadsheet changes. In this instance, you want to determine how the value of the NPV formula (cell B6) changes when the discount rate (cell B1) changes. Figure 16.9 Project Cash Flows Inserted into Excel To do this, enter the range of interest rates that you want to consider down a column, beginning in cell A7. This example shows rates from 1% to 20% entered in cells A7 through A26. Your Excel file should now look like the screenshot in Figure 16.9. Next, highlight the cells containing the NPV calculation and the range of discount rates. Thus, you will highlight cells A6 through A26 and B6 through B26 (see Figure 16.10). Click Data at the top of the Excel menu so that you see the What-If Analysis feature. Choose Data Table. Because the various discount rates you want to use are in a column, use the "Column input cell" option. Enter "B1" in this box. You are telling Excel to calculate NPV using each of the numbers in this column as the cost of attracting funds in cell B1. Click OK. 498 16 • How Companies Think about Investing Access for free at openstax.org