c. Book; Market d. Economic; Book Review Questions 1. Identify and briefly define the three areas of study in finance. 2. Identify the three focal areas in business finance. 3. Define each of the following types of risk: • inflation risk • diversifiable risk • non-diversifiable risk • political risk 4. Identify three common components of good financial planning. 5. The Concepts in Practice feature in Section 1.3 discusses the importance of data for decision-making. List at least three of the ways the article suggests managers can use financial statements. 6. Describe the role of a financial analyst in a financial institution such as a bank or investment company. 7. Is a dealer or a broker more likely to be a market maker? In your answer, define the activities of a market maker. 8. How can an understanding of micro- and macroeconomic factors aid in small business decision-making? 9. We measure market capitalization by multiplying the number of shares of stock outstanding by the current price per share. Go to finance.yahoo.com and determine the market capitalization of Nike, Tesla, and Walmart. Which company has the greatest market capitalization? Which company has the highest level of sales? If these are not the same companies, why do you think the company with the lower sales level has greater market capitalization? Video Activity Why Climate Change Means New Risk for US Financial Markets Click to view content (https://openstax.org/r/player-pbs) 1. Cite some examples that the video used to demonstrate the effect of climate change on the value of property and businesses. Now, identify examples of environmental disasters that you are personally familiar with. How have businesses in your community adapted in response to climate change? 2. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: "The young people of today are the investors of tomorrow, and they will prioritize environmental impact in their investment choices." How do you think your investing future will be altered by climate change? Do you agree that environmental changes are a legitimate and measurable investment risk? Markets and Participants Click to view content (https://openstax.org/r/robinhood) Robinhood is a mobile trading platform for stocks, bonds, and options. The company has transformed the security trading industry by introducing commission-free trades and simplifying the trading process with its intuitive mobile app. However, as this Wall Street Journal video about Robinhood explains, the company and its products are not without controversy. 3. Have you ever traded financial securities? If so, which trading platform(s) have you used? If you have 36 1 • Review Questions Access for free at openstax.org