examine the concepts learned in each chapter. ◦ Multiple-choice questions are basic review questions that test comprehension. ◦ Short-answer questions are brief open-response questions that allow the application of concepts or critical thinking. ◦ Quantitative problems range from single-variable to multistep or multivariable calculations, depending on the difficulty and application level of the chapter. ◦ Sample answers and solutions are provided as part of the instructor resources. • Video Activity. This optional interactive activity at the end of every chapter provides reflection questions for students to apply to two online YouTube videos that offer a variety of corporate, economic, government, and skills-based examples and perspectives. About the Authors Senior Contributing Authors Julie Dahlquist, Texas Christian University Dr. Dahlquist is a professor of professional practice in the Finance Department of the Neeley School of Business at Texas Christian University. She holds a PhD from Texas A&M University, an MA from St. Mary's University, a BBA from the University of Louisiana at Monroe, and a Chartered Market Technician® (CMT) designation. Previously, she served on the finance faculties of the University of Texas at San Antonio and St. Mary's University. She has extensive international experience teaching finance to undergraduate, graduate, and executive MBA students in programs in Mexico, Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Belgium, Greece, and South Korea. Dr. Dahlquist is president of the Technical Analysis Educational Foundation (TAEF), which works with universities to include technical analysis as an integral part of their finance curricula. She has coauthored Technical Analysis: The Complete Resource for Financial Market Technicians (with Charles Kirkpatrick, 3rd edition, FT Press, 2015) and has contributed to many other scholarly publications. Her research has appeared in Financial Analysts Journal, Managerial Finance, Applied Economics, Working Money, Financial Practices and Education, and the Journal of Financial Education. Dr. Dahlquist has served as editor of the Journal of Technical Analysis, a member of the editorial board of the Southwestern Business Administration Journal, and a reviewer for several other journals. Rainford Knight, Florida Atlantic University Dr. Knight is adjunct faculty in the Finance Department of the College of Business at Florida Atlantic University and the director of its Financial Analyst Program, which he founded in partnership with Bloomberg in 2011. He holds a BBA, an MBA, and a PhD in finance from Florida Atlantic University. Dr. Knight is a member of the CFA Institute and a former director of the CFA Society of South Florida. He has extensive experience teaching finance at the undergraduate, graduate, and executive levels. Previously, he served on the finance faculty of Fairleigh Dickinson University. Dr. Knight has coauthored articles on corporate sustainability, cost-benefit analyses, mutual fund returns, and CEO compensation. He also has significant private industry experience in corporate finance, investment management, and hedge funds. He has been an adviser to CEOs of small to midsize companies on a variety of issues, including restructurings, valuation, financing, and acquisitions. Internationally, he was part of the consulting team advising a sovereign government on the restructuring of its financial sector and has also made presentations regarding financial sector restructuring to central banks in Latin America. Since 2021, Dr. Knight has been CEO and cofounder of Transparency Invest, which supports accountability in organizations. Contributing Authors Alan S. Adams, Dean College Curtis J. Bacon, Southern Oregon University Samantha T. Cooper, Buena Vista University 4 Preface Access for free at openstax.org