Figure 1.6 Financial Analyst Tasks Internal financial analysts are important for a successful firm or organization because their work can lead to more efficient and cost-effective use of financial and nonfinancial resources. Responsibilities include keeping current with market conditions, developing financial models, reconciling variance between forecasts and outcomes, and serving as a resource for management. Financial analysts fulfill their responsibilities through the development and analysis of financial data including ratio analysis, trend analysis, in-depth discussions with division managers, and the presentation and interpretation of information at meetings and on electronic platforms. External financial analysts use similar resources and tools to evaluate financial instruments as an aid to investment companies, investment and commercial bankers, and individual investors who rely on their published reports. Various government agencies also use financial analysts to aid in regulatory oversight and enforcement. A report from a 2019 BLS survey determines that financial analysts earn an average salary of $81,590, and jobs are predicted to grow at a faster-than-average rate of 5% through 2029.5 Business (or Management) Analyst Roles The job description for a business analyst looks much like that for a financial analyst. However, the strong quantitative skills required for a financial analyst are less emphasized in favor of overall strategic thinking. A successful business analyst is able to evaluate business opportunities by using analytical thinking, industry best practices, process development, team building and organization, and information technology. They then communicate optimal courses of action to executive decision makers to maximize value in alignment with the vision and goals of the firm. Business analysts can help develop strategy and tactics to move a firm forward. They aid in identifying challenges and solutions. Data-driven solutions help get products to market more quickly, evaluate performance, and optimize production and product mix. The Bureau of Labor Statistics identifies the following as typical business analyst duties: • Gathering information about problems to be solved or procedures to be improved • Interviewing personnel and conducting onsite observations to determine the methods, equipment, and 5 Ibid. 20 1 • Introduction to Finance Access for free at openstax.org