implies a rate of return between 5.2% and 12.6%. Using the empirical rule, the area under the normal curve within one standard deviation of the mean is 68%. Thus, there is a probability, or likelihood, of 0.68 that a mid- cap stock fund will provide a rate of return between 5.2% and 12.6%. If the interval of interest is extended to two standard deviations from the mean (a rate of return between 1.5% and 16.3%), using the empirical rule, we can determine that the area under the normal curve within two standard deviations of the mean is 95%. Thus, there is a probability, or likelihood, of 0.95 that a mid-cap stock fund will provide a rate of return between 1.5% and 16.3%. 13.6 Data Visualization and Graphical Displays By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Determine appropriate graphs to use for various types of data. • Create and interpret univariate graphs such as bar graphs and histograms. • Create and interpret bivariate graphs such as time series graphs and scatter plot graphs. Graphing Univariate Data Data visualization refers to the use of graphical displays to summarize data to help to interpret patterns and trends in the data. Univariate data refers to observations recorded for a single characteristic or attribute, such as salaries or blood pressure measurements. When graphing univariate data, we can choose from among several types of graphs, such as bar graphs, time series graphs, and so on. The most effective type of graph to use for a certain data set will depend on the nature of the data and the purpose of the graph. For example, a time series graph is typically used to show how a measurement is changing over time and to identify patterns or trends over time. Below are some examples of typical applications for various graphs and displays. Graphs used to show the distribution of data: • Bar chart: used to show frequency or relative frequency distributions for categorical data • Histogram: used to show frequency or relative frequency distributions for continuous data Graphs used to show relationships between data points: • Time series graph: used to show measurement data plotted against time, where time is displayed on the horizontal axis • Scatter plot: used to show the relationship between a dependent variable and an independent variable Bar Graphs A bar graph consists of bars that are separated from each other and compare percentages. The bars can be rectangles, or they can be rectangular boxes (used in three-dimensional plots), and they can be vertical or horizontal. The bar graph shown in the example below has age groups represented on the x-axis and proportions on the y-axis. By the end of 2021, a certain social media site had over 146 million users in the United States. Table 13.11 shows three age groups, the number of users in each age group, and the proportion (%) of users in each age group. A bar graph using this data is shown in Figure 13.5. Age Groups Number of Site Users Percent of Site Users 13-25 65,082,280 45 26-44 53,300,200 36 Table 13.11 Data for Bar Graph of Age Groups 400 13 • Statistical Analysis in Finance Access for free at openstax.org