a. net income / interest expense b. earnings before interest and taxes / interest expense c. interest expense / earnings before interest and taxes d. earnings before interest and taxes - interest expense 6. What is the formula for the calculation of earnings per share? a. (net income + preferred dividends) / weighted average common shares outstanding b. net income / weighted average common shares outstanding c. (net income - preferred dividends) / weighted average common shares outstanding d. (net income - preferred dividends) / treasury shares outstanding 7. Most analysts believe which of the following is true about earnings per share? a. Consistent improvement in earnings per share year after year is an indication of continuous improvement in the company's earning power. b. Consistent improvement in earnings per share year after year is an indication of continuous decline in the company's earning power. c. Consistent improvement in earnings per share year after year is an indication of fraud within the company. d. Consistent improvement in earnings per share year after year is an indication that the company will never suffer a year of net loss rather than net income. 8. What is the formula for profit margin? a. net sales / net income b. cost of goods sold / net sales c. sales / cost of goods sold d. net income / net sales Review Questions 1. Is past performance considered a good indicator of future performance? 2. The Pony Parts Tack Shop had inventory turnover of 12.8, 12.2, and 9.9 over the last three years, respectively. What can you learn about how well the Pony Parts management team is managing their inventory using this information? 3. The Pony Parts Tack Shop had total asset turnover of 1.8., 2.1, and 2.4 over the last three years, respectively. What can you learn about how well the Pony Parts management team is managing their total assets using this information? 4. Big Box Store Inc. had days' sales in inventory of 30, 32, and 34 for the last three years. Small Box Store Inc. had days' sales in inventory of 40, 38, and 36 for the last three years. What can you infer about the inventory management for the two companies based on this information? Which company is performing better? 5. Jackson's Beef Jerky Shop has a current ratio of 2.35. What does that mean? Is 2.35 a good or bad current ratio? 6. Jackson's Beef Jerky Shop has a quick ratio of 1.9. What does that mean? Is 1.9 a good or bad quick ratio? 7. Jackson's Beef Jerky Shop has a cash ratio of 1.75. What does that mean? Is 1.75 a good or bad cash ratio? 8. You have some funds that you would like to invest. Do some internet research to find two publicly traded companies in the same industry and compare their earnings per share. Would the earnings per share 188 6 • Review Questions Access for free at openstax.org