19.1 What Is Working Capital? By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Define working capital. • Calculate a firm's operating cycle and cash cycle. • Compute inventory days, accounts receivable days, and accounts payable days. The concept of business capital is often associated with the cash and assets (such as land and equipment) that the owners contributed to the business. Early political economists like Adam Smith and Karl Marx identified this concept of capital, along with labor and entrepreneurship, to be the factors of production. That general idea of capital is important and critical to a company's productive capacity. This chapter is about a specific type of capital- working capital-that is just as important as long-term capital. Working capital describes the resources that are needed to meet the daily, weekly, and monthly operating cash flow needs. Employees are paid out of working capital as well as cash from operations, the fulfillment of merchandise orders is possible because of working capital, and the liquidity of a company hinges upon how well management plans and controls working capital. Understanding working capital begins with the concept of current assets-those resources of a business that are cash, near cash, or expected to be turned into cash within a year through the normal operations of the business. Current assets are necessary for the everyday operation of the firm, and they are synonymous with term gross working capital. Cash is needed to pay the bills and meet the payroll. Excess cash is invested in cash alternatives such as marketable securities, creating liquidity that can be tapped when operating cash flow needs exceed the amount of cash on hand (checking account balances). Investment in inventory is necessary to meet the demand for products (sales), and if the firm extends credit to its customers so that a sale can be made, the balance sheet will also show accounts receivable-a very common current asset that derives its value from the probability that customers will pay their bills. Working capital is often spoken about in two versions: gross working capital and net working capital. As was previously stated, gross working capital is equivalent to current assets, particularly those that are cash, cash- like, or will be converted to cash within a short period of time (i.e., in less than one year). Net working capital (NWC) is a more refined concept of working capital. It is best understood by examining its formula: Goal of Working Capital Management The goal of working capital management is to maintain adequate working capital to • meet the operational needs of the company; • satisfy obligations (current liabilities) as they come due; and • maintain an optimal level of current assets such as cash (provides no return), accounts receivable, and inventory. Working capital management encompasses all decisions involving a company's current assets and current liabilities. One very important aspect of working capital management is to provide enough cash to satisfy both maturing short-term obligations and operational expenditures-keeping the company sufficiently liquid. In summary, working capital management helps a company run smoothly and mitigates the risk of illiquidity. Well-run companies make effective use of current liabilities to finance an optimal level of current assets and maintain sufficient cash balances to meet short-term operating goals and to satisfy short-term obligations. Working capital management is accomplished through 566 19 • The Importance of Trade Credit and Working Capital in Planning Access for free at openstax.org