compounded future value of $1.061.67, which would appear to make logical sense. The total differences in future values among annual, monthly, and quarterly compounding in these examples are insignificant, amounting to less than $1.70 in total. However, when working with larger amounts, higher interest rates, more frequent compounding periods, and longer terms, compounding periods and frequency become far more important and can generate some exceptionally large differences in future values. Ten million dollars at 12% growth for one year and compounded annually amounts to , while 10 million dollars on the same terms but compounded quarterly will produce . Most wealthy and rational investors and savers would be very pleased to earn that additional $55,088.10 by simply having their funds in an account that features quarterly compounding. In another example, $200 at 60% interest, compounded annually for six years, becomes , while this same amount compounded quarterly grows to . An amount of $1 at 3%, compounded annually for 100 years, will be worth . The same dollar at the same interest rate, compounded monthly over the course of a century, will grow to . This would all seem to make sense due to the fact that in situations when compounding increases in frequency, interest income is being received during the year as opposed to at the end of the year and thus grows more rapidly to become a larger and more valuable sum of money. This is important because we know through the concept of TVM that having money now is more useful to us than having that same amount of money at some later point in time. The Rule of 72 The rule of 72 is a simple and often very useful mathematical shortcut that can help you estimate the impact of any interest or growth rate and can be used in situations ranging from financial calculations to projections of population growth. The formula for the rule of 72 is expressed as the unknown (the required amount of time to double a value) calculated by taking the number 72 and dividing it by the known interest rate or growth rate. When using this formula, it is important to note that the rate should be expressed as a whole integer, not as a percentage. So, as a result, we have This formula can be extremely practical when working with financial estimates or projections and for understanding how compound interest can have a dramatic effect on an original amount or monetary balance. Following are just a few examples of how the rule of 72 can help you solve problems very quickly and very easily, often enabling you to solve them "in your head," without the need for a calculator or spreadsheet. Let's say you are interested in knowing how long it will take your savings account balance to double. If your account earns an interest rate of 9%, your money will take or 8, years to double. However, if you are earning only 6% on this same investment, your money will take , or 12, years to double. Now let's say you have a specific future purchasing need and you know that you will need to double your money in five years. In this case, you would be required to invest it at an interest rate of , or 14.4%. Through these sample examples, it is easy to see how relatively small changes in a growth or interest rate can have significant impact on the time required for a balance to double in size. To further illustrate some uses of the rule of 72, let's say we have a scenario in which we know that a country's gross domestic product is growing at 4% a year. By using the rule of 72 formula, we can determine that it will 7.4 • Applications of TVM in Finance 219