16.2 Net Present Value (NPV) Method Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Define net present value. • Calculate net present value. • List the advantages and disadvantages of using the net present value method. • Graph an NPV profile. Net Present Value (NPV) Calculation Sam's purchasing of the embroidery machine involves spending money today in the hopes of making more money in the future. Because the cash inflows and outflows occur in different time periods, they cannot be directly compared to each other. Instead, they must be translated into a common time period using time value of money techniques. By converting all of the cash flows that will occur from a project into present value, or current dollars, the cash inflows from the project can be compared to the cash outflows. If the cash inflows exceed the cash outflows in present value terms, the project will add value and should be accepted. The difference between the present value of the cash inflows and the present value of cash outflows is known as net present value (NPV). The equation for NPV can be written as Consider Sam's Sporting Goods' decision of whether to purchase the embroidery machine. If we assume that after six years the embroidery machine will be obsolete and the project will end, when placed on a timeline, the project's expected cash flow is shown in Table 16.3: Year 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Cash Flow ($) (16,000) 2,000 4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 Table 16.3 Calculating NPV is simply a time value of money problem in which each cash flow is discounted back to the present value. If we assume that the cost of funds for Sam's is 9%, then the NPV can be calculated as Because the NPV is positive, Sam's Sporting Goods should purchase the embroidery machine. The value of the firm will increase by $2,835.63 as a result of accepting the project. Calculating NPV involves computing the present value of each cash flow and then summing the present values of all cash flows from the project. This project has six future cash flows, so six present values must be computed. Although this is not difficult, it is tedious. A financial calculator is able to calculate a series of present values in the background for you, automating much of the process. You simply have to provide the calculator with each cash flow, the time period in which each cash flow occurs, and the discount rate that you want to use to discount the future cash flows to the present. Follow the steps in Table 16.4 for calculating NPV: 482 16 • How Companies Think about Investing Access for free at openstax.org