plan going forward. Changes in any of the "upstream" budgets-budgets that are prepared before the cash budget, such as the sales, purchases, and production budgets-may need to be revised because of changing assumptions. New economic forecasts and even cost-cutting measures will require a revision of the cash budget. Although a budget might be prepared for each month of a future 12-month period, such as the upcoming fiscal year, a rolling budget is often used. A rolling budget changes often as the planning period (e.g., a fiscal year) plays out. When one month ends, another month is added to the end (the next column) of the budget. For example, if in your budget January is the first month of the planning period, once January is over, next January's cash budget column would be added-right after December's column (at the far right of the budget). Sample One-Year (Annual) Operating Budget Preparing an annual operating budget can be a complex task. In essence, a company budget is a series of budgets, many of which are interrelated. The sales budget is prepared first and has an impact on many other budgets. Take the example of a production budget of a manufacturer. The sales budget impacts what needs to be produced (production budget), and the production budget influences planned purchases of material (purchases budget), overhead resources (overhead budget), and the amount of labor costs for the year ahead (direct labor budget.) For a merchant (such as a wholesaler or retailer), the annual budget would be less complex than that of a manufacturing firm but would still require an inventory purchases budget and an operating expense budget (such as selling and administrative expenses). For a service firm, a purchase budget for inventory would not be necessary, but an operating budget would be. All businesses need a cash budget, which is the topic of the next section of this chapter. The example operating budget presented here is of a merchandising company. Budgets are prepared following a process that begins with a sales (or revenue) forecast. The sales forecast is normally based on information obtained from both internal and external sources and predicts the amount of units to be sold in the planning period-usually one year into the future. A company's management, in consultation with its marketing and sales executives, would prepare a sales budget by making assumptions about the number of units that are expected to be sold and the prices that will be charged. From the sales budget, projections are made as to cash receipts each month, and therefore assumptions have to be made as to how much of each month's sales will be cash sales and how much cash will flow into the company from the collection credit sales (including cash flow in from the prior month's sales). Figure 19.7 provides an example of a sales budget and projected accounts receivable collections and cash sales for the months of January through December. Keep in mind that projected monthly sales amounts are not equal to cash collected from sales. Because of sales on credit, some cash from sales lags credit sales as collections can extend beyond the month of sale. Credit terms such terms such as net 30 (net amount owed to be paid in 30 days) have to be considered when developing a forecasted cash collection pattern. 19.6 • Using Excel to Create the Short-Term Plan 585