available from any publicly traded company's financial statements. Because of this, the EV/EBITDA ratio is a commonly used metric to compare the relative values of different businesses. • EV/EBITDAR. Another form of valuation based on enterprise value is EV/EBITDAR. This metric divides enterprise value by earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization, and rental costs (EBITDAR). This multiple is used in businesses that have substantial rental and lease expenses, such as hotel chains and airlines. Capital investment can differ significantly for these firms, and when assets are leased, these companies tend to have artificially lower debt and operating income compared to firms that actually own their assets. EV/Capital Employed. The EV-to-capital employed ratio is a measure of enterprise value compared to the level of capital used by a business. For example, a business with a large capital basis is bound to carry a large enterprise value simply due to its large capital holdings. Final Thoughts on Valuation Ratios and Multiples There are many equity and enterprise value multiples used in company valuation, but the discussions above cover those that are most commonly used. In any case, gaining a thorough understanding of each multiple and its related concepts can help analysts make better use of these metrics in their stock analysis and valuation efforts. Also, as discussed, it is important that analysts and technicians use multiple ratios and alternate measures for any evaluation of a company and its common stock. Not doing so will limit the ultimate interpretation of the results, can lead to incorrect conclusions, and may cause fundamental mistakes in overall investment strategy. LINK TO LEARNING Graph of Historical P/E for S&P 500 Look at the 90-year historical average P/E ratio of the S&P 500 (https://openstax.org/r/ 90-year_historical_average_P/E). When viewing this information on historical P/E ratios, think about the following: • Note that the general trend for historical P/E ratios has been one of growth. • Note that in May 2009, the P/E ratio reached a staggering the highest ratio in US history. This was primarily due to depressed earnings during the Great Recession. 11.2 Dividend Discount Models (DDMs) Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Identify and use DDMs (dividend discount models). • Define the constant growth DDM. • List the assumptions and limitations of the Gordon growth model. • Understand and be able to use the various forms of DDM. • Explain the advantages and limitations of DDMs. The dividend discount model (DDM) is a method used to value a stock based on the concept that its worth is the present value of all of its future dividends. Using the stock's price, a required rate of return, and the value of the next year's dividend, investors can determine a stock's value based on the total present value of future dividends. This means that if an investor is buying a stock primarily based on its dividend, the DDM can be a useful tool to determine exactly how much of the stock's price is supported by future dividends. However, it is important to 11.2 • Dividend Discount Models (DDMs) 325