Different Shapes of the Yield Curve There are two important elements to any yield curve that will define its shape: its level and its slope. The level of a yield curve directly relates to the yield rates depicted on the y-axis of the graph (see Figure 10.6). The slope of the yield curve indicates the difference between yields on short-term and longer-term investments. The difference in yields is primarily due to investors' expectations of the direction of interest rates in the economy and how the federal funds rate (referred to as cash rate in many countries) is uncertain and may differ significantly over time. As an example, yields on three-year bonds incorporate the expectations of investors on how bank rates might move over the next three years, combined with the uncertainty of those rates over the three-year period. Figure 10.6 Changes in Yield Curve Depending on Cash Rate As we briefly discussed above, a positive or normal yield curve is indicative of the investment community's requirements for higher rates of return as financial consideration for assuming the risk of entering into fixed- income investments, such as the purchase of bond issues. Typically, as a bond term increases, so will the potential interest rate risk to the bondholder. Therefore, bonds with longer terms will usually carry higher coupon rates to make returns greater for investors. Additionally, economists have come to believe that a steep positive yield curve is a sign that investors anticipate relatively high inflation in the future and thus higher interest rates accompanied by higher investment yields over shorter (inflationary) periods of time. Normal yield curves are generally observed during periods of economic expansion, when growth and inflation are increasing. In any expansionary economy, there is a greater likelihood that future interest rates will be higher than current rates. This tends to occur because investors will anticipate the Fed or the central bank raising its short-term rates in response to higher inflation rates within the economy. CONCEPTS IN PRACTICE How COVID-19 Impacted the Yield Curve Figure 10.7 shows the relatively normal-shaped yield curve effective in February 2021. 298 10 • Bonds and Bond Valuation Access for free at openstax.org