between x and y in the population. The regression line equation that we calculate from the sample data gives the best-fit line for our particular sample. We want to use this best-fit line for the sample as an estimate of the best-fit line for the population (Figure 14.5). Examining the scatter plot and testing the significance of the correlation coefficient helps us determine if it is appropriate to do this. These are the assumptions underlying the test of significance: 1. There is a linear relationship in the population that models the average value of y for varying values of x. In other words, the expected value of y for each particular value lies on a straight line in the population. (We do not know the equation for the line for the population. Our regression line from the sample is our best estimate of this line in the population.) 2. The y-values for any particular x-value are normally distributed about the line. This implies that there are more y-values scattered closer to the line than are scattered farther away. Assumption (1) implies that these normal distributions are centered on the line: the means of these normal distributions of y-values lie on the line. 3. The standard deviations of the population y-values about the line are equal for each value of x. In other words, each of these normal distributions of y-values has the same shape and spread about the line. 4. The residual errors are mutually independent (no pattern). 5. The data are produced from a well-designed, random sample or randomized experiment. Figure 14.5 Best-Fit Line The y-values for each x-value are normally distributed about the line with the same standard deviation. For each x-value, the mean of the y-values lies on the regression line. More y-values lie near the line than are scattered further away from the line. 14.3 Best-Fit Linear Model Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Calculate the slope and y-intercept for a linear regression model using technology. • Interpret and apply the slope and y-intercepts. Calculate the Slope and y-Intercept for a Linear Regression Model Using Technology Once a correlation has been deemed as significant, a best-fit linear regression model is developed. The goal in the regression analysis is to determine the coefficients a and b in the following regression equation: The slope (b) and y-intercept (a) can be calculated using the following formulas: 14.3 • Best-Fit Linear Model 427