common to make a market order or a limit order. A market order executes a trade at the current price, while a limit order specifies the price at which the investor is willing to buy or sell. Figure 12.4 provides a visual representation of how payment for an order flow works. Figure 12.4 The Order of Payments for Trade Executions 12.2 Historical Picture of Inflation Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Define inflation with concrete examples. • Describe the practical impact of inflation on consumption and salary. • Explain how expected and actual inflation are measured. • Detail the behavior of inflation over various historical periods. Over time, returns in the stock market have easily outperformed returns in the bond market. However, not everyone is comfortable investing in stocks. Taking a more informed and opposing view, financial economist Jeremy Siegel queries, "You have never lost money in stocks over any 20-year period, but you have wiped out half your portfolio in bonds (after inflation). So which is the riskier asset?"14 Siegel brings up a valid point about inflation. Returns adjusted for changes in prices provide a better measure of value or wealth. Baseball pundit Sam Ewing noted, "Inflation is when you pay fifteen dollars for the ten-dollar haircut you used to get for five dollars when you had hair."15 If what you have earned on your investments fails to keep up with changing prices, you may have a larger portfolio with less purchasing power. Expected versus Actual Inflation Inflation occurs when things cost more and your money buys less today than it did yesterday. It is understandable to dislike inflation and to be concerned over the prospect of rising prices. In fact, two of the primary policy objectives of the Federal Reserve are to work for price stability and moderate interest rates. However, is inflation necessarily good or bad? In practice, inflation can benefit some people and harm others at the same time. Consider the impact of differences in expected and actual realized inflation. Empirical evidence suggests that, on average, economists do a good job of developing inflation rate forecasts that match the actual rate of inflation. Estimated inflation is built into the interest rates investors require or are willing to pay for financial products, such as fixed-rate loans or bonds. When the actual rate of inflation exceeds the estimated rate on a product, such as a mortgage loan, this means borrowers are repaying the loan with less-valuable dollars and benefit from the increased inflation rate. Lenders, however, receive those inflation-impacted dollars and are harmed due to their unexpected decrease in purchasing power. Deflation, or falling prices, is associated with economic recessions or even depressions and is thought to be an even more serious problem than inflation. Generally, policy makers tend to support moderate inflation, being careful to stay away from zero or negative price changes. 14 Jeremy J. Siegel. Stocks for the Long Run: The Definitive Guide to Financial Market Returns & Long-Term Investment Strategies. McGraw-Hill, 2002. First published 1994. 15 Sam Ewing. "Sam Ewing Quotes." Brainy Quotes. https://www.brainyquote.com/authors/sam-ewing-quotes 362 12 • Historical Performance of US Markets Access for free at openstax.org