the payday advance loan (PAL). The practice of offering such loans can be controversial because it can lead to very high rates of interest, perhaps even illegally high, in an act known as usury. Although some states have outlawed PALs and others place limits on them, some do not. A PAL is a short-term loan in anticipation of a person's next paycheck. A person in need of money for short-term needs will write a check on Thursday but date the check next Thursday, which is their normal payday; assume this transaction is for $200. The lender, typically operating from a storefront, will advance the $200 cash and hold the postdated check. The lender charges a fee-let's say $14-as their compensation. The following Thursday, the borrower is expected to pay off the advance, and if they do not, the lender can deposit the postdated check. If that check has insufficient funds, more fees and penalties will likely be assessed. One primary reason that arrangements such as these are controversial is the excessively high nominal (stated) interest rate that they can represent. For a one-week loan of $200, the borrower is paying $14, or 7% of the borrowed amount. If this is annualized, with 52 seven-day periods in a year, the stated rate is 364%! While a PAL might seem to be an effective immediate solution to a cash shortfall, the mathematics behind the true cost of borrowing simply do not make sense, and a person who uses such arrangements regularly is placing themselves at a dreadful financial disadvantage. THINK IT THROUGH How Tempting Is That Refund Anticipation? Refund anticipation loans (RALs) began in 1987, and they are still available (though not from banks) and used by millions of people.1 Now, RALs come from private lending chains. These loans allow you to determine your April 15 personal income tax liability through a preparer and receive an advance against your expected refund.2 But beware: your ability to analyze the true cost of money is always critical. Like all loans, RALs bear a rate of interest. Let's assume that the firm that prepared your tax return determines that you're entitled to an $800 refund. Once they advance that amount to you, it will bear interest at a certain rate; we'll assume 0.5% per week. You might expect a tax refund in four weeks. Half a percent of $800 doesn't sound like much, but what happens when you annualize it into an effective rate, assuming your tax refund arrives exactly four weeks from when you accept the loan? Assume no compounding during those four weeks. Solution: A weekly rate of 0.5% on the $800 advance is $4 per week, so for four full weeks, you've paid $16 for the use of $800. Of course, that totals 2% of the amount advanced. There are 13 four-week periods in a year, so even though the interest rate appears to be small, it amounts to 26% when annualized! We assumed no compounding to keep the illustration simple, but we further assume that you are not using this advance throughout the year. If you were, then periodic compounding would drive the effective rate even higher, to just over 29.3%. 1 Michelle Singletary. "Another Reason Not to Opt for a Tax Refund Loan: It May Delay Your Next Stimulus Payment." Washington Post, February 16, 2021. https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2021/02/16/tax-refund-loan-problems/ 2 Amelia Josephson. "What Is a Refund Anticipation Loan?" SmartAsset. March 18, 2021. https://smartasset.com/taxes/what-is-a- refund-anticipation-loan 8.4 • Stated versus Effective Rates 245