seasonally adjusted CPI, which removes the effects of seasonal changes such as weather, the school year, production cycles, and holidays. The CPI can be used to recognize periods of inflation and deflation. Significant increases in the CPI within a short time frame might indicate a period of inflation, and significant decreases in CPI within a short time frame might indicate a period of deflation. However, because the CPI includes volatile food and oil prices, it might not be a reliable measure of inflationary and deflationary periods. For more accurate detection, the core CPI, or CPILFESL (https://openstax.org/r/fred-stlouisfed-org)-the CPIAUCSL minus food and energy-is often used. When using the CPI, please note that it is not applicable to all consumers and should not be used to determine relative living costs. Additionally, the CPI is a statistical measure vulnerable to sampling error because it is based on a sample of prices and not the complete average. Unemployment Unemployment is a measure of people who are not working. For the individuals who find themselves without a job, unemployment causes financial hardship. From a macroeconomics standpoint, unemployment means that society has labor resources that are not being fully utilized. Not everyone who is without a job is unemployed. To be considered unemployed, a person must be (1) jobless, (2) actively seeking work, and (3) able to take a job. The official unemployment rate is the percentage of the labor force that is unemployed. It is calculated as Note that the unemployment rate is calculated as the percentage of the labor force that is unemployed, rather than the percent of the total population. Only those who are currently employed or who meet the definition of being unemployed are counted in the labor force. In other words, someone who is retired or a stay-at-home parent and is not seeking employment is not counted as unemployed and is not part of the labor force. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) of the US Department of Labor reports the unemployment rate each month. These figures are attained through an interview process of 60,000 households conducted by the Census Bureau. (See Figure 3.11 for a graphic representation of historical trends in unemployment from 1950 to early 2021.) 2 Data from US Bureau of Labor Statistics. "Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers: All Items in US City Average (CPIAUCSL)." FRED. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, accessed July 7, 2021. https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CPIAUCSL 3.2 • Macroeconomics 79