• If the credit is approved, what will be the credit terms (i.e., how long do we give customers to pay their bills)? • Will there be a cash discount for quick payment? • How much credit should be extended to each customer (credit limit)? Accounts receivable is not about accepting credit cards. Credit card sales are not technically accounts receivable. When a credit card is accepted, it means that the credit card company (e.g., VISA, MasterCard, or American Express) will guarantee the payment. The cash will be deposited in the merchant's bank account in a very short period of time. When a business makes a sale on account, management (e.g., a credit manager or analyst) does its best to distinguish between customers who have a high likelihood of paying and customers who have a low likelihood. Customers with low credit risk are approved; the decision is based on an effective analysis of creditworthiness. Creditworthiness is judged by looking at a number of factors including an evaluation of the customer's financial statements, financial ratios, and credit reports (credit scores) based on a customer's payment history on credits owed to other firms. If a company has a prior relationship with a customer seeking trade credit, the customer's payment history with the firm is also carefully evaluated before additional credit is granted. LINK TO LEARNING Corporate Finance Institute Credit managers use various tools and techniques to evaluate creditworthiness of customers. The Corporate Finance Institute's website states that "the '5 Cs of Credit' is a common phrase used to describe the five major factors [character, capacity, collateral, capital, and conditions] used to determine a potential borrower's creditworthiness." It goes on to say that "a credit report provides a comprehensive account of the borrower's total debt, current balances, credit limits, and history of defaults and bankruptcies, if any."5 More on the 5 Cs of credit can be found on the Corporate Finance Institute's website (https://openstax.org/ r/corporate-finance). Determining the Credit Policy A company's credit policy encompasses rules of credit granting and procedures for the collections of accounts. It's how a company will process credit applications, utilize credit scoring and credit bureaus, analyze financial statements, make credit limit decisions, and conduct collection efforts when accounts become delinquent (still outstanding after their due date). Establishing Credit Terms Trade credit terms were discussed earlier. Recall that part of the terms and conditions of a sale are the credit terms-elements of a sales agreement (contract) that indicate when payment is due, possible discounts (for quick payments), and any late fee charges. If open credit is for a sales transaction, an agreement is made as to the length of time for which credit is to be granted (payment period) and a discount for early payment. Although companies are free to establish credit terms as they see fit, most companies look to the practice of the particular industry in which they operate. The credit terms offered by the competition are a factor. Net terms usually range between 30 days and 90 days, depending on the industry. Discounts for early payments also differ and are typically from 1 to 3 percent. Establishing credit terms offered can be thought of as a decision process similar to setting a price for products and services. Just as a price is the result of a market forces, so too are credit terms. If credit terms are not 5 Corporate Finance Institute. "What Are the 5 Cs of Credit?" n.d. https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/knowledge/ credit/5-cs-of-credit/ 580 19 • The Importance of Trade Credit and Working Capital in Planning Access for free at openstax.org