explained in Table 19.1. Negative Net Working Capital Zero Net Working Capital Positive Net Working Capital Current liabilities are greater than current assets. Current assets equal current liabilities. Current assets are greater than current liabilities. Could indicate a liquidity problem. There is difficulty satisfying current obligations. Indicates that current assets could cover current obligations. However, there is no positive margin (safety cushion) or "liquid reserve" to satisfy unexpected cash needs. Indicates that the company can meet its current obligations. However, excessively high net working capital could mean too little cash and therefore an opportunity cost (forgoing rates of return on alternative investment). Table 19.1 Spectrum of Net Working Capital Measures of Financial Health provides information on a variety of financial ratios to help users of financial statements understand the strengths and weakness of companies' financial statements. Three of the financial ratios covered in that chapter are brought back into this chapter's discussion to demonstrate how financial managers examine working capital and liquidity. Liquidity is the ease with which an asset can be converted into cash. Those ratios are the current ratio, the quick ratio, and the cash ratio. A higher ratio indicates a greater level of liquidity. The formulas for the three liquidity ratios are: Notice how the current ratio includes the two elements of net working capital-current assets and current liabilities. It makes for a quick comparison of relative size or proportion. THINK IT THROUGH Current Ratio A company has $2,000,000 of current assets, while its current liabilities are $1,000,000. What is the current ratio, and what does it mean? Solution: The current ratio would be which is a 2:1 proportion of current asset value to the amount of the current liabilities. This means that if all the current assets could be converted to cash, then the current liabilities could be satisfied two times. There are two drawbacks to the current ratio: (1) it is a working capital analytic as of a point in time but is not indicative of future liquidity or future cash flows and (2) as an indicator of liquidity, it can be deceptive if a significant proportion of the current assets are inventory, supplies, or prepaid expenses. Inventory is not very liquid as it can take an extended time period to convert to cash, and assets such as supplies and prepaid expenses never become cash and therefore are not a source of funds to pay bills. The quick ratio is considered a more conservative indication of liquidity since it does not include a firm's 568 19 • The Importance of Trade Credit and Working Capital in Planning Access for free at openstax.org