often not in the best interest of the long-term health and objectives of companies or their shareholders. 2.3 Role of the Board of Directors Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the oversight functions performed by boards. • Define an independent board member. • Compare arguments for and against having independent board members. • Describe ways boards can become diverse. Functions of a Board of Directors A board of directors is a group of people who are elected to represent shareholders, and these directors are then ultimately responsible for running the company. Every public company is legally required to install a board of directors. Nonprofit organizations and many private companies often establish a board of directors as well, even if they are not legally required to do so. The board is responsible for protecting shareholders' interests, establishing management policies, overseeing the corporation or organization, and making decisions about important issues. The board of directors acts as a fiduciary for shareholders. The board is also tasked with a number of other responsibilities, including setting company goals, creating dividend and stock option policies, hiring and firing chief executive officers (CEOs), and ensuring that the company has the resources it needs to perform well. Basic Structure of a Board of Directors The bylaws of a company or organization determine the structure, responsibilities, and powers given to a board of directors. The bylaws also determine how many board members there are, how the members are elected, and how frequently the board members meet. The board must represent shareholder and management interests, so it is best for the board to include both internal and external members. Usually, there is an internal director and an external director. The internal director is a member of the board who is involved with the daily workings of the company and manages the interests of shareholders, officers, and employees. The external director represents the interests of those who function outside of the company. The CEO often serves as the chairman of the company's board of directors. Figure 2.2 Corporate Boardroom (credit: "495 Express Lanes Board Room" by Fairfax County Chamber of Commerce/flickr, CC BY 2.0) 46 2 • Corporate Structure and Governance Access for free at openstax.org