well as the fees paid to investment bankers to place the new shares. When new equity must be issued to finance the company, the flotation costs must be subtracted from the price of the stock to determine the net proceeds the firm will receive. The cost of this new equity capital is calculated as where F represents the flotation costs of the new stock issue. If, in this example, the flotation cost is $0.25 per share, then the cost of raising new equity capital is Issuing new common equity is the most expensive form of raising capital. Equity capital is already expensive because the common shareholders are the residual claimants who will only be paid if all other claimants are paid. Because of this risk, they require a higher rate of return than providers of capital who have precedence in the order of claimants. Flotation costs must be added to this equity cost when new shares are issued to grow the company. THINK IT THROUGH Cost of Issuing New Equity You are a financial manager for American Motor Works (AMW). The target capital structure for the company is 30% debt and 70% equity. You know that your company's after-tax cost of debt is 4.6%. Your company paid a dividend of $3 per share last year, and it has a policy of increasing its dividend at a rate of 1.5% each year. AMW stock is currently trading for $27.50 per share. You estimate that the company's retained earnings will be $10 million this year. If the company needs to issue new shares of stock, flotation costs are expected to be $0.75 per share. Given this information, you are tasked with calculating the company's WACC. You need to provide an estimate of WACC if retained earnings are used and an estimate if new equity must be issued. Solution: First, calculate the cost of equity capital for AMW using the constant dividend growth model: Using 12.57% as the equity cost of capital and 4.6% as the after-tax cost of debt, the WACC is calculated as The WACC for AMW when it is using retained earnings for equity financing is 10.18%. If the company has $10 million in retained earnings this year, its equity will increase by $10 million. Given its target capital structure of 30% debt and 70% equity, AMW will be able to increase its overall financing by by using its retained earnings and issuing new debt of $4,285,714. If AMW wants to expand its assets by more than $14,285,714 during the next year, it will need to issue new stock or increase the weight of debt in its capital structure. The company will incur flotation costs of $0.65 per share to issue new stock. The cost of new equity capital will be 17.6 • Alternative Sources of Funds 527