Vertical Integration A common method of handling the risk associated with volatile input prices is vertical integration, which involves the merger of a company and its supplier. For Starbucks, a vertical integration would involve Starbucks owning a coffee bean farm. If the price of coffee beans rises, the firm's costs increase and the supplier's revenues rise. The two companies can offset these risks by merging. Although vertical integration can reduce commodity price risk, it is not a perfect hedge. Starbucks may decrease its commodity price risk by purchasing a coffee farm, but that action may expose it to other risks, such as land ownership and employment risk. Futures Contracts Another method of hedging commodity price risk is the use of a futures contract. A commodity futures contract is designed to avoid some of the disadvantages of entering into a long-term contract with a supplier. A futures contract is an agreement to trade an asset on some future date at a price locked in today. Futures exist for a range of commodities, including natural resources such as oil, natural gas, coal, silver, and gold and agricultural products such as soybeans, corn, wheat, rice, sugar, and cocoa. Futures contracts are traded anonymously on an exchange; the market price is publicly observable, and the market is highly liquid. The company can get out of the contract at any time by selling it to a third party at the current market price. A futures contract does not have the credit risk that a long-term contract has. Futures exchanges require traders to post margin when buying or selling commodities futures contracts. The margin, or collateral, serves as a guarantee that traders will honor their obligations. Additionally, through a procedure known as marking to market, cash flows are exchanged daily rather than only at the end of the contract. Because gains and losses are computed each day based on the change in the price of the futures contract, there is not the same risk as with a long-term contract that the counterparty to the contract will not be able to fulfill their obligation. THINK IT THROUGH The CME Group In 2007, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange merged with the Chicago Board of Trade to form CME Group Inc. CME Group provides trading in futures as well as other types of contracts that companies can use to hedge risk. You can watch the video Getting Started with Your Broker (https://openstax.org/r/ Getting_Started_with_Your_Broker) to learn how futures contracts for agricultural products such as coffee beans, corn, wheat, and soybeans are traded. You will also see other types of futures contracts traded, including futures for silver, crude oil, natural gas, Japanese yen, and Russian rubles. 20.2 • Commodity Price Risk 603