Fitch Moody's S&P Bond Grade/Risk BBB Baa BBB Investment/medium risk BB Ba BB Junk/high risk B B B Junk/high risk CCC Caa CCC Junk/highest risk Table 12.2 Credit Scale Ratings from the Three Credit Rating Agencies Equity Markets An important goal of firm managers is to maximize owners' wealth. For corporations, shares of stock represent ownership. A corporation could have 100 shares, one million shares, or even several billion shares of stock. Stocks are difficult to value compared to bonds. Bonds typically provide periodic interest payments and a principal payment at maturity. The bond indenture specifies the timing and the amount of payments. Stocks might have periodic dividend payments, and an investor can plan to sell the stock at some point in the future. However, no contract guarantees the size of the dividends or the time and resale price of the stock. Thus, the cash flows from stock ownership are more uncertain and risky. Corporations are the dominant form of business enterprise in the United States because of the ability to raise capital, the ease of transfer of ownership, and the benefit of limited liability to the owners. There are generally two types of stock, preferred and common. Preferred stock is a hybrid between common stock and bonds. Preferred stock has a higher claim to cash flows than common stockholders have (thus the term preferred), but it is lower than that of bondholders. In addition, preferred stock has fixed cash flows as bonds have and typically has no or few voting rights. Preferred stock dividends are after-tax payments by the corporation, as are common stock dividends, but bond interest payments, paid prior to taxes, are tax-deductible for firms. Of the three, preferred stock is the least used form of capital financing for corporations. Common stockholders are the residual claimants and owners of the corporation. After all others who have a claim against the firm are paid, the common stockholders own all that remains. Common stockholders have voting rights, typically one vote per share, and choose the board of directors. One popular way to rank the size of companies is to determine the value of their market capitalization, or market cap. Market cap is equal to the current stock price multiplied by the number of shares outstanding. According to the World Bank, the total market cap of US firms at the end of 2020 was $50.8 trillion, making up over half of the world's total value of equity, estimated at $90 trillion.6 The largest US company at that time was Apple, followed by Microsoft, Amazon, Alphabet (Google), and Facebook. The largest company by sales volume in 2020 was Walmart.7 Geographical Location of Exchanges Ownership is easily transferable for stocks that trade in one of the organized stock exchanges or in an over- the-counter (OTC) market. Definitions of a stock exchange and an OTC market blur as financial markets quickly adapt to innovations. However, stock markets have a centralized trading location, transactions require a broker to connect buyers and sellers, and the exchanges guarantee a basic level of liquidity so that investors are always able to buy or sell their stocks. An OTC market is an electronic market conducted on computer screens and consists of direct transactions among buyers and sellers, with no broker to bring the two 6 Siblis Research. "Total Market Value of US Stock Market." Siblis Research. https://siblisresearch.com/data/us-stock-market-value/; The World Bank. "Market Capitalization of Listed Domestic Companies (current US$)." The World Bank. https://data.worldbank.org/ indicator/CM.MKT.LCAP.CD 7 Companies Market Cap. "Largest American Companies by Market Capitalization." Companies Market Cap. https://companiesmarketcap.com/usa/largest-companies-in-the-usa-by-market-cap/; National Retail Federation. "Top 100 Retailers 2020 List." National Retail Federation. 2020. https://nrf.com/resources/top-retailers/top-100-retailers/top-100-retailers-2020-list 12.1 • Overview of US Financial Markets 359