This will then have the effect of incentivizing consumers to spend their money now, or in the very near future, instead of saving cash for later use. Another concept in economics states that this relationship between money supply and monetary value is one of the primary reasons why the Federal Reserve might at times take steps to inject money into a stagnant, lethargic economy. Increasing the money supply will lead to increased economic activity and consumer spending, but it can also have the negative effect of increasing the costs of goods and services, furthering an increase in the rate of inflation. Consumers who decide to save their money now and for the foreseeable future, as opposed to spending it now, are simply making the economic choice to have their cash on hand and available. So, this ends up being a decision that is made despite the risk of potential inflation and perhaps losing purchasing power. When inflationary risk is low, most people will save their money to have it available to spend later. Conversely, in times when inflationary risk is high, people are more likely to spend their money now, before its purchasing power erodes. This idea of inflationary risk is the primary reason why savers and investors who decide to save now in order to have their money available at some point in the future will insist they are paid, through interest or return on investment, for the future value of any savings or financial instrument. Lower interest rates will usually lead to higher inflation. This is because, in a way, interest rates can be viewed as the cost of money. This allows for the idea that interest rates can be further viewed as a tax on holding on to sums of money instead of using it. If an economy is experiencing lower interest rates, this will make money less expensive to hold, thus incentivizing consumers to spend their money more frequently on the goods and services they may require. We have also seen that the more quickly inflation rates rise, the more quickly the general purchasing power of money will be eroded. Rational investors who set money aside for the future will demand higher interest rates to compensate them for such periods of inflation. However, investors who save for future consumption but leave their money uninvested or underinvested in low-interest-bearing accounts will essentially lose value from their financial assets because each of their future dollars will be worth less, carrying less purchasing power when they end up needing it for use. This relationship of saving and planning for the future is one of the most important reasons to understand the concept of the time value of money. Nominal versus Real Interest Rates One of the main problems of allowing inflation to determine interest rates is that current interest rates are actually nominal interest rates. Nominal rates are "stated," not adjusted for the effects of inflation. In order to determine more practical real interest rates, the original nominal rate must be adjusted using an inflation rate, such as those that are calculated and published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics within the consumer price index (CPI). A concept referred to as the Fisher effect, named for economist Irving Fisher, describes the relationship between inflation and the nominal and real interest rates and is expressed using the following formula: where i is the nominal interest rate, R is the real interest rate, and h is the expected inflation rate. An example of the Fisher effect would be seen in the case of a bond investor who is expecting a real interest rate of return of 6% on the bond, in an economy that is experiencing an expected inflation rate of 2%. Using the above formula, we have So, the nominal interest rate on the bond amounts to 8.12%, with a real interest rate of 6% within an economy that is experiencing a 2% inflation rate. This is a logical result because in a scenario of positive inflation, a real rate of return would always be expected to amount to less than the stated or nominal rate. 7.4 • Applications of TVM in Finance 217