one, the stock has more systematic risk than the average stock in the market. Assume that the rate on 10-year US Treasury notes is 3% and serves as a proxy for the risk-free rate. If the long-run average return for the stock market is 11%, the market risk premium is this means that people who invest in the stock market are rewarded for the risk they are taking by being paid 8% more than they would have been paid if they had purchased US Treasury notes. Bluebonnet Industries cost of equity capital can be estimated as Constant Dividend Growth Model The constant dividend growth model provides an alternative method of calculating a company's cost of equity. The basic formula for the constant dividend growth model is Thus, three things are needed to complete this calculation: the current stock price, what the dividend will be in one year, and the growth rate of the dividend. The current price of the stock is easy to obtain by looking at the financial news. The other two items, the dividend next year and the growth rate of the dividend, will occur in the future and at the current time are not known with certainty; these two items must be estimated. Suppose Bluebonnet paid a dividend of $1.50 per share to its shareholders last year. Also suppose that this dividend has been growing at a rate of 2% each year for the past several years and that growth rate is expected to continue into the future. Then, the dividend in one year can be expected to be . If the current stock price is $12.50 per share, then that cost of equity is estimated as THINK IT THROUGH Using the Constant Dividend Growth Model What does an increase in the price of a company's stock imply about the equity cost of capital for the company? To find out what the constant dividend growth model suggests, assume that the stock price for Bluebonnet Industries increases to $16.50 per share. If there is no expectation that the growth rate of the dividends will increase, what would the new estimated equity cost of capital be? Solution: Using the price of $16.50 per share in the constant dividend growth model equation results in an estimated equity cost of capital of Thus, an increase in the price of the stock, holding all of the other variables in the equation constant, implies that the equity cost of capital drops to 11.27%. 17.3 Calculating the Weighted Average Cost of Capital By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Calculate the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). • Describe issues that arise from estimating the cost of equity capital. • Describe the use of net debt in calculating WACC. 512 17 • How Firms Raise Capital Access for free at openstax.org