ordering costs costs associated with placing an order with a vendor or supplier precautionary motive a reason to hold cash balances for unexpected expenditures such as repairs, costs associated with unexpected breakdown of equipment, and hiring temporary workers to meet unexpected production demands quick payment a payment made on an account payable during a period of time that falls within the discount period ratios numerical values taken from financial statements that are used in formulas to examine financial relationships and create metrics of performance, strengths, weaknesses; help analysts gain insight and meaning speculative motive a reason for holding an amount of cash-to be able to take advantage of investment opportunities stockout costs an opportunity cost (lost revenue) incurred when a customer order cannot be filled because the item is out of stock and the customer goes elsewhere for the product supply chain the network of participants and activities between a company and its suppliers and the company and its customers; exists to distribute a product or to provide a service to the final buyer trade credit credit granted to a business, also called accounts payable; allows a business to buy goods and services on account and pay the cash at some point in the future transactional motive holding an amount of cash to meet operational expenditures such as payroll, payments to vendors, and loan payments working capital the resources that are needed to meet the daily, weekly, and monthly operating cash flow needs Multiple Choice 1. The term working capital is synonymous with ________. a. accounts payable b. current assets c. equity d. current liabilities 2. The formula for net working capital is ________. a. Current Assets - Current Liabilities b. Fixed Assets - Current Assets c. Assets - Liabilities d. Current Assets - Liabilities 3. When sales are made on credit, which current assets typically increase at the time of the sale? a. cash b. notes receivable c. accounts receivable d. marketable securities 4. Which of the following is NOT a goal of working capital management? a. meet the operational needs of the company b. satisfy obligations (current liabilities) as they come due c. maintain an optimal level of current assets d. maximize the investment in current assets 5. Accelerated Growth Inc. has the following account balances at year-end. 592 19 • Multiple Choice Access for free at openstax.org