debt obligations, it is said to be in financial distress. A firm in financial distress incurs both direct and indirect costs. The direct costs of financial distress include fees paid to lawyers, consultants, appraisers, and auctioneers. The indirect costs include loss of customers and suppliers. Trade-Off Theory Trade-off theory weighs the advantages and disadvantages of using debt in the capital structure. The advantage of using debt is the interest tax shield. The disadvantage of using debt is that it increases the risk of financial distress and the costs associated with financial distress. A company has an incentive to increase leverage to exploit the interest tax shield. However, too much debt will make it more likely that the company will default and incur financial distress costs. Calculating the precise balance between these two is difficult if not impossible. For companies with a low level of debt, the risk of default is low, and the main impact of an increase in leverage will be an increase in the interest tax shield. At some point, however, the tax savings that result from increasing the amount of debt in the capital structure will be just offset by the increased probability of incurring the costs of financial distress. For firms that have higher costs of financing distress, this point will be reached sooner. Thus, firms that face higher costs of financial distress have a lower optimal level of leverage than firms that face lower costs of financial distress. LINK TO LEARNING Netflix Netflix has experienced phenomenal growth in the past 25 years. Starting as a DVD rental company, Netflix quickly shifted its model to content streaming. In recent years, the company has become a major producer of content, and it is currently the largest media/entertainment company by market capitalization. It is expensive for Netflix to fund the production of this content. Netflix has funded much of its content through selling debt. You can view the company's explanation of this capital structure choice by looking at the answers the company provides to common investor questions (https://openstax.org/r/the-company-provides). You can also find the company's financial statements on its website and see how the level of debt on Netflix's balance sheet has increased over the past few years. Figure 17.4 demonstrates how the value of a levered firm varies with the level of debt financing used. Vu is the value of the unlevered firm, or the firm with no debt. As the firm begins to add debt to its capital structure, the value of the firm increases due to the interest tax shield. The more debt the company takes on, the greater the tax benefit it receives, up until the point at which the company's interest expense exceeds its earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT). Once the interest expense equals EBIT, the firm will have no taxable income. There is no tax benefit from paying more interest after that point. 17.5 • Optimal Capital Structure 521