cash flows is broken down into three key categories: operating, investing, and financing. This allows users to clearly see what elements of the business are generating or using cash. In Figure 18.4, we see that Clear Lake had cash flow from operating activities of $53,600, cash used for investing activities of ($18,600), and cash used for financing activities of ($15,000). Figure 18.4 Statement of Cash Flows Another key concept to remember about the financial statements is that the statement of cash flows is necessary to truly understand how the firm is using and generating cash. A common misconception is that if a firm reports net income on its income statement, then it must have plenty of cash, and if it reports a loss, it must be short on cash. Although this can be true, it's not necessarily the case. Historically speaking, we need the statement of cash flows to get the full picture of how cash was used or generated in the past. Looking to the future, we need a cash flow forecast to plan for possible gaps in cash flow and, potentially, how to make the best use of any cash surplus. Throughout this chapter, we will see how to use historical financial statements to help develop the future cash forecast. It's also important to remember that the four financial statements are tied together. Net income from the income statement feeds into retained earnings, which live on the balance sheet. Equity balances on the balance sheet feed information to the statement of stockholders' equity. And information from both the income statement (net income and noncash expenses) and the balance sheet (changes in working capital accounts) all feed into the statement of cash flows. These relationships will be helpful to understand when using historical statements and preparing forecasts. Balance Sheet Analysis Fully understanding the items that are on the balance sheet and how they relate to one another and to other financial statements will help you create a financial forecast. In Financial Statements, you learned that on the classified balance sheet, both assets and liabilities are broken down into current and noncurrent categories. You also know that the balance sheet must live up to its name-it must balance. This means that total assets (what the company owns) must equal total liabilities and equity (what the company owes). 538 18 • Financial Forecasting Access for free at openstax.org