Summary 10.1 Characteristics of Bonds Bonds are typically a basic form of investment that entails a straightforward financial agreement between issuer and purchaser. There are three primary categories of bonds: government bonds, corporate bonds, and convertible bonds. These different types of bond vary depending on their issuer, length until maturity, interest rate, and risk. 10.2 Bond Valuation It is important to ascertain what a given bond is worth to a willing buyer and a willing seller. We can price a bond using an equation, a calculator, or a spreadsheet. The essential steps are (1) identify the amount and timing of the future cash flow; (2) determine the discount rate; (3) find the present values of the lump sum principal and the annuity stream of coupons; and (4) add the present value of the lump sum principal and the present value of the coupons. 10.3 Using the Yield Curve When interest rate yields are plotted against their respective maturity periods and these plotted points are connected, the resulting line is called the yield curve. The yield curve is a graphical representation of the term structure of interest rates. A yield curve always shows the value of yields (rates) on the y-axis and maturities or time periods on the x-axis. 10.4 Risks of Interest Rates and Default Because bonds are fixed-income investments, they are subject to a number of risks that could have negative effects on their market value. The most common and best-known risks are interest rate risk and default risk, but there are some others risks that should be understood, such as credit risk, liquidity risk, duration risk, call risk, investment risk, and term risk. To assist potential bond investors in understanding some of these risks, bond ratings have been developed and are regularly published by a number of organizations to express their assessment of the risk quality of various bond issues. 10.5 Using Spreadsheets to Solve Bond Problems Microsoft Excel can be used to solve common bond problems. It can be used to calculate the value of a coupon bond, the yield to maturity (interest rate) of a bond, the maturity period of a bond, and the coupon rate and interest (coupon) payments of a bond. Key Terms bond call a feature of certain bonds or other fixed-income instruments that allows the issuer to repurchase and retire these instruments before maturity bond price the present, discounted value of the future cash stream generated by a bond; the sum of the present values of all likely coupon payments and the present value of the par value at maturity bond ratings grades assigned to bonds by rating services that indicate their overall credit quality Business Cycle Dating Committee a subdivision of the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), the US government agency that maintains a chronology of US business cycles call risk the risk that a bond issuer will redeem a callable bond prior to maturity capital gains the increase in a capital asset's value that is realized when the asset is sold cash rate the interest rate that a central bank, such as the Reserve Bank of Australia or the US Federal Reserve System, will charge commercial banks for loans; also known as the bank rate or the base interest rate convertible bonds fixed-income corporate debt securities that yield interest payments but can be converted into a predetermined number of common stock or equity shares 10 • Summary 313