Figure 16.2 NPV Profile Graph 16.3 Internal Rate of Return (IRR) Method Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Define internal rate of return (IRR). • Calculate internal rate of return. • List advantages and disadvantages of using the internal rate of return method. Internal Rate of Return (IRR) Calculation The internal rate of return (IRR) is the discount rate that sets the present value of the cash inflows equal to the present value of the cash outflows. In considering whether Sam's Sporting Goods should purchase the embroidery machine, the IRR method approaches the time value of money problem from a slightly different angle. Instead of using the company's cost of attracting funds for the discount rate and solving for NPV, as we did in the first NPV equation, we set NPV equal to zero and solve for the discount rate to find the IRR: The IRR is the discount rate at which the NPV profile graph crosses the horizontal axis. If the IRR is greater than the cost of capital, a project should be accepted. If the IRR is less than the cost of capital, a project should be rejected. The NPV profile graph for the embroidery machine crossed the horizontal axis at 14%. Therefore, if Sam's Sporting Goods can attract capital for less than 14%, the IRR exceeds the cost of capital and the embroidery machine should be purchased. However, if it costs Sam's more than 14% to attract capital, the embroidery machine should not be purchased. In other words, a company wants to accept projects that have an IRR that exceed the company's cost of attracting funds. The cash flow from these projects will be great enough to cover the cost of attracting money from investors in addition to the other costs of the project. A company should reject any project that has an IRR less than the company's cost of attracting funds; the cash flows from such a project are not enough to compensate the investors for the use of their funds. Calculating IRR without a financial calculator is an arduous, time-consuming process that requires trial and error to find the discount rate that makes NPV exactly equal zero. Your calculator uses the same type of trial- and-error iterative process, but because it uses an automated process, it can do so much more quickly than you can. A problem that might require 30 minutes of detailed mathematical calculations by hand can be 486 16 • How Companies Think about Investing Access for free at openstax.org