displayed on the horizontal axis variance the measure of the spread of data values calculated as the square of the standard deviation weighted mean a measure of center of a data set in which each data value has a corresponding weighting x-axis the horizontal axis in a rectangular coordinate system y-axis the vertical axis in a rectangular coordinate system z-score (or z-value) a measure of the position of a data value in the data set, calculated by subtracting the mean from the data value and then dividing the difference by the standard deviation CFA Institute This chapter supports some of the Learning Outcome Statements (LOS) in this CFA® Level I Study Session (https://openstax.org/r/cfa-level1-study-session). Reference with permission of CFA Institute. Multiple Choice 1. A data set of salaries contains an outlier salary. The best measure of center to use for this data set is the ________. a. mean b. median c. mode d. standard deviation 2. A portfolio includes shares of United Airlines stock that were purchased at different times and different prices. Which measure is best to determine the average cost of the shares of the stock? a. mean b. median c. weighted mean d. standard deviation 3. Standard deviation is a measure of the ________. a. center of a data set b. position of a data value in a data set c. area under a normal curve d. spread of a distribution 4. How are standard deviation and variance related? a. The two measures are equal to one another. b. Variance is the square root of the standard deviation. c. Standard deviation is the square root of the variance. d. The two squared measures are equal to one another. 5. Which of the following is the best definition of a z-score? a. the distance of a data value from the mean b. the number of standard deviations that a data value is from the mean c. the distance of a data value from the mean divided by the sample size d. the number of quartiles that a data value is from the mean 6. The results of a standardized test indicate that you are in the 85th percentile. What is the best interpretation of this result? a. You scored in the top 85% of all students taking the test. 13 • CFA Institute 413