interested in data analytics to optimize the value gleaned from business- and consumer-related data, and statistical analysis forms the core of such analytics. 13.1 Measures of Center By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Calculate various measures of the average of a data set, such as mean, median, mode, and geometric mean. • Recognize when a certain measure of center is more appropriate to use, such as weighted mean. • Distinguish among arithmetic mean, geometric mean, and weighted mean. Arithmetic Mean The average of a data set is a way of describing location. The most widely used measures of the center of a data set are the mean (average), median, and mode. The arithmetic mean is the most common measure of the average. We will discuss the geometric mean later. Note that the words mean and average are often used interchangeably. The substitution of one word for the other is common practice. The technical term is arithmetic mean, and average technically refers only to a center location. Formally, the arithmetic mean is called the first moment of the distribution by mathematicians. However, in practice among non-statisticians, average is commonly accepted as a synonym for arithmetic mean. To calculate the arithmetic mean value of 50 stock portfolios, add the 50 portfolio dollar values together and divide the sum by 50. To calculate the arithmetic mean for a set of numbers, add the numbers together and then divide by the number of data values. In statistical analysis, you will encounter two types of data sets: sample data and population data. Population data represents all the outcomes or measurements that are of interest. Sample data represents outcomes or measurements collected from a subset, or part, of the population of interest. The notation is used to indicate the sample mean, where the arithmetic mean is calculated based on data taken from a sample. The notation is used to denote the sum of the data values, and is used to indicate the number of data values in the sample, also known as the sample size. The sample mean can be calculated using the following formula: Finance professionals often rely on averages of Treasury bill auction amounts to determine their value. Table 13.1 lists the Treasury bill auction amounts for a sample of auctions from December 2020. Maturity Amount ($Billions) 4-week T-bills $32.9 8-week T-bills 38.4 13-week T-bills 63.1 26-week T-bills 59.6 52-week T-bills 39.7 Total $233.7 Table 13.1 United States Treasury Bill Auctions, December 22 and 24, 2020 (source: Treasury Direct) 382 13 • Statistical Analysis in Finance Access for free at openstax.org