preferred stock are promised a fixed dividend, which must be paid before any dividends can be paid to common stockholders. In the order of claimants, preferred shareholders stand in line between bondholders and common shareholders. Bondholders are paid interest before preferred shareholders are paid annual dividends. Preferred shareholders are paid annual dividends before common shareholders are paid dividends. Should the company face bankruptcy, the same priority of claimants is followed in settling claims-first bondholders, then preferred stockholders, with common stockholders standing at the end of the line. Preferred stock shares some characteristics with debt financing. It has a promised cash flow to its holders. Unlike common equity, the dividend on preferred stock is fixed and known. Also, there are consequences if those preferred dividends are not paid. Common shareholders cannot receive any dividends until preferred dividends are paid, and in some cases, preferred shareholders receive voting rights until they are paid the dividends that are due. However, preferred shareholders cannot force the company into bankruptcy as debt holders can. For tax and legal purposes, preferred stock is treated as equity. The cost of the preferred equity capital is calculated using the formula Suppose that Greene Building Company has issued preferred stock that pays a dividend of $2.00 each year. If this preferred stock is selling for $21.80 per share, then the company's cost of preferred stock is THINK IT THROUGH Calculating Common Equity Financing Greene Building Company uses 40% debt, 15% preferred stock, and 45% common stock in its capital structure. The yield to maturity on the company's bonds is 7.2%. The cost of preferred equity is 9.17%. In the most recent year, Greene paid a dividend of $3.15 to its common shareholders. This dividend has been growing at a rate of 3.0% per year, which is expected to continue in the future. The company's common stock is trading for $32.25 per share. Greene pays a corporate tax rate of 21%. Estimate the WACC for Greene. Solution: The cost of Greene's common equity financing must be calculated. This can be done using the constant dividend growth model: The weights and the costs for each component of capital are placed in the WACC formula: The WACC for Greene Building Company is estimated to be 9.47%. Note that debt financing is the cheapest cost of capital for Greene. The reason for this is twofold. First, because debt holders face the least amount of risk because they are paid first in the order of claimants, they require a lower return. Second, because interest payments are tax-deductible, the interest tax shield lowers the effective cost of debt to the 524 17 • How Firms Raise Capital Access for free at openstax.org