The person can withdraw this amount every year beginning one year from now, and when the final payment is withdrawn, the fund will be depleted. Interest accrues each year on the beginning balance, and then $16,376.60 is withdrawn at the end of each year. LINK TO LEARNING Another View of Annuities Many examples of annuities are available, with presentations as varied as the opinions as to how appropriate they are for investors, especially retirees. Math Is Fun (https://openstax.org/r/Math_Is_Fun) is particularly interesting and potentially helpful for understanding how to apply this knowledge. 8.3 Loan Amortization Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Distinguish between different types of loans. • Explain how amortization works. • Create an amortization schedule. • Calculate the cost of borrowing. Types of Loans Funds can be loaned to businesses of any type, including corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies, and proprietorships. Bankers often refer to these lending structures as facilities, and they can be tailored to the specific needs of the borrower in a number of ways. Similarly, lenders develop loans and lines of credit for individuals. Whether for a business or an individual, the purpose of the loan, method of repayment, interest rate, specific terms, and time involved must all be tailored to the goals of the borrower and the lender. In this chapter, we will focus on fixed-rate loans, although other alternatives exist. Typical business loans include the following: • Term loans generally bear a maturity date and a set rate of interest and are typically used to finance investments in assets such as equipment, buildings, and possibly other acquired firms. The length of the term loan is generally designed to match the useful life of the asset being financed, and it will usually be repaid on a monthly schedule. It's common for a term loan to be backed by collateral, such as the asset itself or other assets of the business. • Revolving lines of credit (revolvers), are used to finance the short-term working capital needs of a business. Revolvers will have a specific maximum but no set schedule of monthly payments. Interest accrues on the amount of cash that a company has drawn down from the facility. These credit lines may be secured by accounts receivable, inventory, other assets of the business, or sometimes simply the good 8.3 • Loan Amortization 239