c. The slope indicates the strength of the linear relationship between x and y. d. The slope indicates the direction of the linear relationship between x and y. 6. A linear model is developed for the relationship between the annual salary of finance professionals and years of experience, and the following is the linear model . Which is the correct interpretation of this linear model? a. b. c. d. 7. Which of the following is the correct sequence of steps needed to create a linear regression model? a. create scatter plot, calculate correlation coefficient, check for significance, create linear model b. create linear model, calculate correlation coefficient, check for significance, create scatter plot c. check for significance, create linear model, calculate correlation coefficient, create scatter plot d. create scatter plot, check for significance, create linear model, calculate correlation coefficient 8. A linear model is developed for the relationship between the annual salary of finance professionals and years of experience, and the linear model is: The correlation is determined to be significant. Predict the salary for a finance professional with 7 years of experience. a. $55,010 b. $60,000 c. $62,000 d. $125,000 9. As predictions are made for x-values that are further and further away from the mean of x, which is true about the prediction intervals for these x-values? a. The prediction intervals will become smaller. b. The prediction intervals will become larger. c. The prediction intervals will remain the same. d. There is not enough information to determine the answer. 10. Which of the following is the R command to calculate the correlation coefficient r? a. correl b. cor c. slope d. lm 11. Which of the following is the R command to calculate the slope and y-intercept for a linear regression model? a. cor b. slope c. lm d. intercept Review Questions 1. A correlation coefficient is calculated as . Provide an interpretation for this correlation coefficient. 2. Explain what a residual is and how this relates to the best-fit regression model. 444 14 • Review Questions Access for free at openstax.org