Summary 9.1 Timing of Cash Flows To understand the true value and strength of cash, it is necessary to consider its timing. This is relevant for investments for the future and for analyses of the value of projects that require investment today to produce expected flows of cash later. These future cash flows could involve inflows or outflows of cash in unequal amounts. This section analyzed the determination of present and future value of these uneven or mixed cash flows. 9.2 Unequal Payments Using a Financial Calculator or Microsoft Excel This section discussed the use of two tools for managing and understanding the time value of money and its many applications when the flows of cash are unequal: the TI BA II Plus™ Professional financial calculator and the spreadsheet application Excel. Key Terms capital investment a major expenditure that requires a large up-front investment and is expected to generate substantial cash inflow in return cash flow the amount of cash actually flowing into and out of a business, as opposed to income (which is based on accounting rules, accruals, and reports) future value the value of an asset or holding at a point in the future based on expectations of that asset's growth at a certain rate of return mixed stream a set of cash flows over a period of time that can vary in amount from one period to the next present value the value of an asset in today's dollars based on future growth expectations at an assumed interest rate CFA Institute This chapter supports some of the Learning Outcome Statements (LOS) in this CFA® Level I Study Session (https://openstax.org/r/cfa-level1-study-session). Reference with permission of CFA Institute. Multiple Choice General instructions: Approximations and minor differences because of rounding are acceptable. Ignore the effect of taxes. Please assume that all percentages are annual rates and compounding occurs annually unless otherwise indicated. 1. For which of the following situations would you NOT be able to use the one-step shortcut provided by an annuity calculation? a. Planning an amortization table for a three-year car loan at 2% b. Investing $2,000 per year for 10 years at 5% c. Calculating the monthly payment on a 20-year home mortgage of $150,000 at 3% d. Finding the present value of a fund that will pay $1,000 the first year, $2,000 in the second year, and $3,500 in the third year 2. If you invest $3,000 today, $5,000 one year from now, and $3,000 two years from now, approximately how much money will you have at the end of the third year if you invest in a fund paying 7%? a. $11,770.24 b. $12,609.63 c. $13,187.79 d. $14,274.50 278 9 • Summary Access for free at openstax.org