where rate is the nominal rate and periods represents the number of periods within a year. Earlier, our example showed that 1.5% compounded monthly results in not 18% per year but actually over 19.56% (see Figure 8.7). Figure 8.7 Excel Spreadsheet Showing Effective Interest Rate Note several things: First, the nominal interest rate is entered as a percent. Second, the actual effect function in C7 is typed as =EFFECT(rate,B7); we use the word rate because we actually assigned a name to cell B3, so Excel can use it in a function and replicate it without it changing. When cell C7 is replicated to C8 and C9, rate remains the same, but the formulas automatically adjust to use B8 and B9 for the periods. To assign a name to a cell, keep in mind that every cell has column-row coordinates. We want cell B3 to be the anchor of our effective rate calculations. Rather than referring to cell B3, we can name it, and in this case, we use the name rate, which we can then use in formulas like any other Excel cell letter-number reference. Place the cursor in cell B3. Now, look at cell A1 on the grid: right above that cell, you see a box displaying B3, the current cursor location. If you click in that box and type "rate" (without the quotation marks), as we did, then hit the enter key, the value in that box will change to rate. Now, if you type "rate" (again, without quotation marks) into a formula, Excel knows to use the contents of cell B3. Excel provides convenient tools for figuring out amortization. We'll revisit our 36-month auto loan for $32,000 at 6% per year, compounded monthly. A loan amortization table for a fixed interest rate debt is usually formatted as follows, with the Interest and Principal columns interchangeable: Period Payment Interest Principal Balance In Excel, a table is completed by using the function PMT. The individual steps follow. 1. List the information about the loan in the upper left of the worksheet, and create the column headings for the schedule of amortization. Type "B5" (without the quotation marks) in cell E9 to begin the schedule. Then enter 1 for the first month under the Payment # (or Month) column, in cell A10 (see Figure 8.8). 252 8 • Time Value of Money II: Equal Multiple Payments Access for free at openstax.org