inventory turnover measures the number of times an average quantity of inventory was bought and sold during the period liquidity ability to convert assets into cash in order to meet primarily short-term cash needs or emergencies market value ratios measures used to assess a firm's overall market price operating cycle amount of time it takes a company to use its cash to provide a product or service and collect payment from the customer price/earnings (P/E) ratio company's stock price divided by the company's earnings per share; indicates the amount investors are willing to pay for one dollar of earnings profit margin represents how much of sales revenue has translated into income quick ratio also known as the acid test ratio; ratio used to determine a firm's ability to pay short-term debts using its most liquid assets return on equity measures the company's ability to use its invested capital to generate income return on total assets measures the company's ability to use its assets successfully to generate a profit solvency implies that a company can meet its long-term obligations and will likely stay in business in the future times interest earned (TIE) ratio measures the company's ability to pay interest expense on long-term debt incurred total asset turnover measures the ability of a company to use its assets to generate revenues CFA Institute This chapter supports some of the Learning Outcome Statements (LOS) in this CFA® Level I Study Session (https://openstax.org/r/cfa-study-session11). Reference with permission of CFA Institute. Multiple Choice 1. Which of the following is financial statement analysis not used for? a. identifying trends over time b. benchmarking against other firms c. complying with SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission) regulations d. setting budget expectations 2. How is converting financial data to percentages helpful in financial analysis? a. It makes the figures easier to calculate. b. It masks actual financial data so the competition can't see it. c. It saves time. d. It makes comparisons to companies of varying sizes possible. 3. What is a common economic influence that has the potential to skew financial analysis figures? a. past performance b. inflation c. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles d. benchmark data 4. What is the formula for accounts receivable turnover? a. net credit sales / average accounts receivable b. total sales / average accounts receivable c. net credit sales / beginning accounts receivable d. net cash sales / ending accounts receivable 5. What is the formula for the times interest earned ratio? 6 • CFA Institute 187