denominator. If McKinley Investment Management has a portfolio with a 20% return over the past five years, with a beta of 1.2 and a risk-free rate of 3%, the Treynor ratio would be Both the Sharpe and Treynor ratios are relative measures of investment performance, meaning that there is not an absolute number that indicates whether an investment performance is good or bad. An investment manager's performance must be considered in relation to that of other managers or to a benchmark index. Jensen's Alpha Jensen's alpha is another common measure of investment performance. It is computed as the raw portfolio return minus the expected portfolio return predicted by the CAPM: Suppose that the average market return has been 12%. What would Jensen's alpha be for McKinley Investment Management's portfolio with a 20% average return and a beta of 1.2? Unlike the Sharpe and Treynor ratios, which are meaningful in a relative sense, Jensen's alpha is meaningful in an absolute sense. An alpha of 0.062 indicates that the McKinley Investment Management portfolio provided a return that was 6.2% higher than would be expected given the riskiness of the portfolio. A positive alpha indicates that the portfolio had an abnormal return. If Jensen's alpha equals zero, the portfolio return was exactly what was expected given the riskiness of the portfolio as measured by beta. THINK IT THROUGH Comparing the Returns and Risks of Portfolios You are interviewing two investment managers. Mr. Wong shows that the average return on his portfolio for the past 10 years has been 14%, with a standard deviation of 8% and a beta of 1.2. Ms. Petrov shows that the average return on her portfolio for the past 10 years has been 16%, with a standard deviation of 10% and a beta of 1.6. You know that over the past 10 years, the US Treasury security rate has averaged 2% and the return on the S&P 500 has averaged 11%. Which portfolio manager do you think has done the better job? Solution: The Sharpe ratio for Mr. Wong's portfolio is , and the Treynor ratio is . The Sharpe ratio for Ms. Petrov's portfolio is , and the Treynor ratio is . Jensen's alpha for Mr. Wong's portfolio is Jensen's alpha for Ms. Petrov's portfolio is All three measures of portfolio performance suggest that Mr. Wong's portfolio has performed better than Ms. Petrov's has. Although Ms. Petrov has had a larger average return, the portfolio she manages is riskier. Ms. Petrov's portfolio is more volatile than Mr. Wong's, resulting in a higher standard deviation. Ms. Petrov's portfolio has a higher beta, which means it has a higher amount of systematic risk. The CAPM suggests that a portfolio with a beta of 1.6 should have an expected return of 16.4%. Because Ms. Petrov's 466 15 • How to Think about Investing Access for free at openstax.org