In both cases, barring a rounding difference caused by decimal expansion, we come to the same result using the equation as when we calculate each of multiple years. It's important to note that rounding differences can become significant when dealing with larger multipliers, as in the financing of a multimillion-dollar machine or facility. In this text, we will ignore them. In conclusion, five payments of $25,000, or $125,000 in total, can be funded today with $99,817.81, with the difference being obtained from interest always accumulating on the remaining balance at 8%. The running balance is obtained by calculating the year's interest on the previous balance, adding it to that balance, and subtracting the $25,000 that is withdrawn on the last day of the year. In the last (fifth) year, just enough interest will accrue to bring the balance to the $25,000 needed to complete the fifth payment. A common use of the PVa is with large-money lotteries. Let's assume you win the North Dakota Lottery for $1.2 million, and they offer you $120,000 per year for 10 years, beginning one year from today. We will ignore taxes and other nonmathematical considerations throughout these discussions and problems. The Lottery Commission will likely contact you with an alternative: would you like to accept that stream of payments … or would you like to accept a lump sum of $787,000 right now instead? Can you complete a money-based analysis of these alternatives? Based purely on the dollars, no, you cannot. The reason is that you can't compare future amounts to present amounts without considering the effect of time-that is, the time value of money. Therefore, we need an interest rate that we can use as a discounting factor to place these alternatives on the same playing field by expressing them in terms of today's dollars, the present value. Let's use 9%. If we discount the future stream of fixed payments (an ordinary annuity, as the payments are identical and they begin one year from now), we can then compare that result to the cash lump sum that the Lottery Commission is offering you instead. By substitution, and following the proper order of operations: All things being equal, that expected future stream of ten $120,000 payments is worth approximately $770,119 today. Now you can compare like numbers, and the $787,000 cash lump sum is worth more than the discounted future payments. That is the choice one would accept without considering such aspects as taxation, desire, need, confidence in receiving the future payments, or other variables. 8.2 • Annuities 233