Figure 10.10 Graph Depicting Normal, Flat, and Inverted Yield Curves Why Is the Yield Curve Important? Market technicians, brokers, and investment analysts will study the yield curve in great detail by keeping track of its many changes and movements. This is because of the overall importance of the yield curve as an economic indicator and how it can be representative of the ideas, attitudes, and bond market expectations of individuals as well as large institutional investors that exert significant influence on investment markets and the economy as a whole. 10.4 Risks of Interest Rates and Default Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Define interest rate, default, and other common forms of bond risk. • Calculate the primary indicator of interest rate risk. • Determine factors impacting default risk. • Understand bond laddering as an investment strategy. • List major rating agencies and their indications of default. • Define and calculate the yield to maturity (YTM) on a bond. Bond Risks As we touched on earlier, bonds are fixed-income investments, and because of this, they are subject to a number of risks that could have negative effects on their market value. The most common and best-known risks are interest rate risk and default risk, but other risks exist that should be understood. Among these risks are the following: • Credit risk. If investors believe that a bond issuer is unlikely to meet its payment commitments, they may demand a higher yield to purchase the bond issue in the first place. Due to the relative stability of governments compared to corporations, government bonds are considered to have low credit risk. • Liquidity risk. If investors believe that a bond may be difficult to sell, it will likely have a higher yield. This has the effect of compensating the bondholder for the lack of liquidity (the ability to cash out of the bond). Government bonds usually have the lowest yields of all investments available and are typically among the most liquid in any country where they are traded. Government securities will only face significant liquidity risk in times of great economic distress. • Duration risk. Duration risk is the risk associated with the sensitivity of a bond's price to a single 1% change in interest rates. A bond's duration is expressed in numerical measurements. The higher the duration number, the more sensitive a bond investment will be to changes in interest rates. 10.4 • Risks of Interest Rates and Default 301