c. Variable costs d. Sunk costs 7. In the cash forecast, if cash inflows exceed cash outflows, what does this create? a. A cash surplus b. A cash deficit c. A long-term liability d. An undeclared dividend 8. Amelia wants to use a formula in Excel to estimate her utilities expense for each month. She normally pays her utilities within 30 days. What formula or link might she use in Excel to estimate her cash outflow for utilities? a. Sum the past three months' cost of goods sold from the forecasted income statement b. Link to the prior month's accounts payable from the forecasted balance sheet c. Link to the prior month's utilities expense from the forecasted balance sheet d. Link to the prior month's ending cash balance from the cash flow forecast 9. Amelia wants to use a formula in Excel to estimate her sales for each month. She believes her sales for the next year will be about 7% higher than this year's. She also has a big new ad campaign running late this year that she thinks will add another $5,000 to January sales. Which of the following is an appropriate Excel formula for Amelia's January sales? a. =(lastyearsalesA2*1.07)+5000 b. =(lastyearsales+5000*1.07) c. =lastyearsalesA2+5000*.07 d. =lastyearsalesA2*5000*1.07 Review Questions 1. Javier's firm has created a forecasted income statement that shows the firm with a net profit of $25,000 for the coming year. What can we assume about Javier's cash flows? 2. Lulu's firm's sales grew by 9%, 11%, and 10% over the past three years, respectively. Lulu wants to take her first pass at forecasting sales for next year. What percent sales growth would you recommend she use, and why? 3. Aria wants to create a set of pro forma financial statements. Her goal is to plan for future cash flows and operations as well as help envision her long-term strategy. What time frames should Aria consider for her operations and cash flows versus her long-term strategy? 4. What information might you use to calculate the ending balance for retained earnings on a forecasted balance sheet? 5. Damon estimates his beginning cash balance for June to be $10,000, with cash inflows of $4,000 and cash outflows of $6,000 for the month. What is Damon's forecasted ending balance for June? 6. Tanneh wants to use an Excel formula to help her estimate sales for January in her forecasted income statement. She already has her sales estimate for the full year. Assuming she wants to use the past year's income statement percentages to forecast next year's sales, how would she calculate estimated sales for January? 18 • Review Questions 561