Sometimes cash balances may be required by a bank with which a company conducts significant business. These balances are called compensating balances and are typically a minimum amount to be maintained in the company's checking account. For example, Jack's Outback Restaurant Group borrowed $500,000 from First National Bank and Trust. As part of the loan agreement, First National Bank required Jack's to keep at least $50,000 in its company checking account as a way of compensating the bank for other corporate services it provides to Jack's Outback Restaurant Group. Cash Alternatives Cash that a company has that is in excess of projected financial needs is often invested in short-term investments, also known as cash equivalents (cash alternatives). The reason for this is that cash does not earn a rate of return; therefore, too much idle cash can affect the profitability of a business. Table 19.3 shows a list of typical investment vehicles used by corporations to earn interest on excess cash. Financial managers search for opportunities that are safe and highly liquid and that will provide a positive rate of return. Cash alternatives, because of their short-term maturities, have low interest rate risk (the risk that an investment's value will decrease because of changes in market interest rates). In that way, prudent investment of excess cash follows the risk/return trade-off; in order to achieve safe returns, the returns will be lower than the possible returns achieved with risky investments. Cash alternative investments are not committed to the stock market. Security Description US Treasury bills Obligations of the US government with maturities of 3 and 6 months Federal agency securities Obligations of federal government agencies such as the Federal Home Loan Bank and the Federal National Mortgage Association Certificates of deposit Issued by banks, a type of savings deposit that pays interest Commercial paper Short-term promissory notes issued by large corporations with maturities ranging from a few days to a maximum of 270 days Table 19.3 Typical Cash Equivalents Figure 19.5 shows a note within the 2021 Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Target Corporation. The note discloses the amount of Target's cash and cash equivalent balances of $8,511,000,000 for January 30, 2021, and $2,577,000,000 for February 1, 2020. 578 19 • The Importance of Trade Credit and Working Capital in Planning Access for free at openstax.org