15.4 Applications in Performance Measurement Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Interpret a Sharpe ratio. • Interpret a Treynor measurement. • Interpret Jensen's alpha. Sharpe Ratio Investors want a measure of how good a professional money manager is before they entrust their hard- earned funds to that professional for investing. Suppose that you see an advertisement in which McKinley Investment Management claims that the portfolios of its clients have an average return of 20% per year. You know that this average annual return is meaningless without also knowing something about the riskiness of the firm's strategy. In this section, we consider some ways to evaluate the riskiness of an investment strategy. A basic measure of investment performance that includes an adjustment for risk is the Sharpe ratio. The Sharpe ratio is computed as a portfolio's risk premium divided by the standard deviation of the portfolio's return, using the formula The portfolio risk premium is the portfolio return RP minus the risk-free return Rf; this is the basic reward for bearing risk. If the risk-free return is 3%, McKinley Investment Management's clients who are earning 20% on their portfolios have an excess return of 17%. The standard deviation of the portfolio's return, , is a measure of risk. Although you see that McKinley's clients earn a nice 20% return on average, you find that the returns are highly volatile. In some years, the clients earn much more than 20%, and in other years, the return is much lower, even negative. That volatility leads to a standard deviation of returns of 26%. The Sharpe ratio would be , or 0.65. Thus, the Sharpe ratio can be thought of as a reward-to-risk ratio. The standard deviation in the denominator can be thought of as the units of risk the investor has. The numerator is the reward the investor is receiving for taking on that risk. LINK TO LEARNING Sharpe Ratio The Sharpe ratio was developed by Nobel laureate William F. Sharpe. You can visit Sharpe's Stanford University website (https://openstax.org/r/stanford_wfsharpe) to find videos in which he discusses financial topics and links to his research as well as his advice on how to invest. Treynor Measurement of Performance Another reward-to-risk ratio measurement of investment performance is the Treynor ratio. The Treynor ratio is calculated as Just as with the Sharpe ratio, the numerator of the Treynor ratio is a portfolio's risk premium; the difference is that the Treynor ratio focus focuses on systematic risk, using the beta of the portfolio in the denominator, while the Shape ratio focuses on total risk, using the standard deviation of the portfolio's returns in the 15.4 • Applications in Performance Measurement 465