Step Description Enter Display 4 Enter future value or the most recent dividend ($2.11) 2.11 FV FV FV = 2.1100 5 Enter a zero value for payment as a placeholder, as this factor is not used here 0 PMT PMT PMT 0.0000 6 Compute annual growth rate CPT I/Y CPT I/Y I/Y = 13.0427 Table 11.5 Calculator Steps for Solving the Growth Rate The calculated growth rate is 13.04%. We can also use Excel to set up a spreadsheet similar to the one in Figure 11.10 that will calculate this growth rate. Figure 11.10 Excel Solution for Growth Rate The Excel command used in cell G22 to calculate the growth rate is as follows: =RATE(nper,pmt,pv,[fv],[type],[guess]) We now have two methods to estimate g, the growth rate of the dividends. The first method, calculating the change in dividend each year and then averaging these changes, is the arithmetic approach. The second method, using the first and last dividends only, is the geometric approach. The arithmetic approach is equivalent to a simple interest approach, and the geometric approach is equivalent to a compound interest approach. To apply our PV formula above, we had to assume that the company would pay dividends forever and that we would hold on to our stock forever. If we assume that we will sell the stock at some point in the future, however, can we use this formula to estimate the value of a stock held for a finite period of time? The answer is a qualified yes. We can adjust this model for a finite horizon to estimate the present value of the dividend stream that we will receive while holding the stock. We will still have a problem estimating the stock's selling price at the end of this finite dividend stream, and we will address this issue shortly. For the finite growing dividend stream, we adjust the infinite stream in our earlier equation to the following: where n is the number of future dividends. This equation may look very complicated, but just focus on the far right part of the model. This part calculates the percentage of the finite dividend stream that you will receive if you sell the stock at the end of the nth year. Say you will sell Johnson & Johnson after 10 years. What percentage of the $60.23 (the finite dividend stream) will you get? Begin with the following: 338 11 • Stocks and Stock Valuation Access for free at openstax.org