18.6 Using Excel to Create the Long-Term Forecast Learning Outcomes By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Generate a financial statement forecast using spreadsheet tools. • Connect the balance sheet and income statement using appropriate formula referencing. • Use spreadsheet functions to generate appropriate iterations that balance financial forecasts. Throughout this chapter, we have seen forecasted financial statements for Clear Lake Sporting Goods along with its forecasted cash flow. These statements could all have been generated by hand, of course, but that wouldn't be an effective use of time. As mentioned in prior sections, several different types of software can be quite effective in making the forecasting process faster and more flexible. In this section, we will review just one common option, Microsoft Excel. Download the spreadsheet file (https://openstax.org/r/spreadsheet_file) containing key Chapter 18 Excel exhibits. Using the "Sheet" Creating a budget in Excel can be very simple or extremely complex, depending on the size and complexity of the business and the number of formulas and dependencies that are written into the Excel workbook. Creating the forecast in Excel follows the same steps and flow we just explored in this chapter but with the power of a software program to do the math for you. We begin with the sales forecast, which uses several key formulas in Excel. 1. First, sales are projected to be 18% higher than the prior year. Thus, a total projection for the year is calculated using a simple link and multiplication function tied to last year's total sales. In Figure 18.19, you can see the formula in cell O4 is "='Figure 18.12'!N4*1.18". This formula simply does the math to increase the prior year's sales by 18%. 2. Next, the sales are distributed by month. In Figure 18.19, we see in cell B5 that the forecasted income statement sheet is linked to the percent of annual sales from the Prior Year Income Statement (Figure 18.12) sheet. Then, in cell B4, January sales are estimated with a formula that multiplies the total forecasted sales in O4 by the percent of annual sales for January of the prior year. Notice that the formula then multiplies that product by 0.98. This is because Clear Lake discontinued a product line in the last quarter of the prior year, and management feels that this will reduce sales in the first quarter of the new year by roughly 2%. Figure 18.19 Forecasted Sales Formulas in Excel 3. As Clear Lake continues to fill out its forecasted income statement, the next formula we see is a simple sum formula to calculate net sales in B8 (see Figure 18.20). It's a simple formula that subtracts sales returns and allowances in B7 from gross sales in B4. Similar formulas are also found in B10 for gross margin and B18 for net income. 4. In cell B9, we see a multiplication formula that multiplies sales from B4 by 0.5, or 50%. This is because 554 18 • Financial Forecasting Access for free at openstax.org