Figure 3.5 Graph of Demand and Supply Showing Equilibrium Price and Quantity The point at which the supply and demand curves intersect is known as the equilibrium. At the equilibrium price, the quantity demanded will equal exactly the quantity supplied. There is no shortage or surplus of the product. In the example shown in Figure 3.5, when the price is $15, consumers want to purchase 30 pizzas and sellers want to make 30 pizzas available for purchase. The market is in balance. A price higher than the equilibrium price will not be sustainable in a competitive marketplace. If the price of a pizza were $20, suppliers would make 40 pizzas available, but the quantity of pizzas demanded would be only 20 pizzas. This would be a surplus, or excess quantity supplied, of pizzas. Restaurant owners who see that they have 40 pizzas to sell but can only sell 20 of those pizzas will lower their prices to encourage more customers to purchase pizzas. At the same time, the restaurant owners will cut back on their pizza production. This process will drive the pizza price down from $20 toward the equilibrium price. The opposite would occur if the price of a pizza were only $5. Customers may want to purchase 50 pizzas, but restaurants would only want to sell 10 pizzas at the low price. Quantity demanded would exceed quantity supplied. At a price below the equilibrium price, a shortage would occur. Shortages drive prices up toward the equilibrium price. LINK TO LEARNING The Equilibrium Price A competitive market will drive prices to equilibrium. For a more in-depth understanding of this process, watch the MRU video on equilibrium price and quantity (https://openstax.org/r/mru-video-on-equilibrium). THINK IT THROUGH Graphing Demand and Supply Consider the demand and supply schedules for sweatshirts shown below. Sketch a graph of demand and supply, placing quantity on the horizontal axis and price on the vertical axis. What will the equilibrium price for sweatshirts be? Table 3.4 provides the demand and supply schedules for the sweatshirts. 72 3 • Economic Foundations: Money and Rates Access for free at openstax.org